Iran on Thursday, April 2, threatened "crushing" attacks on the United States and Israel, firing missiles at Tel Aviv after US President Donald Trump vowed to bomb the Islamic Republic "back to the Stone Ages." The war, launched more than a month ago by US-Israeli strikes on Iran, has spread throughout the Middle East and rattled the global economy.

In a White House address, Trump warned attacks would intensify if Tehran did not agree to a deal. "Over the next two to three weeks, we are going to bring them back to the Stone Ages, where they belong," he said.Iran's response was immediate, triggering Israeli air defenses against missile fire. Four people reportedly were lightly wounded in the Tel Aviv area. Fresh blasts shook Jerusalem Thursday evening after the Israeli military warned of incoming Iranian missiles, later saying another had been launched from Yemen.

Yemen's Houthi rebels later said they had launched a fourth missile attack on Israel, firing a "barrage of ballistic missiles" at targets in the Tel Aviv area. In Tehran, AFP journalists reported a series of loud explosions across the city. The targets were unclear.

Iranian state TV said US-Israeli strikes hit a bridge in Karaj, west of Tehran, twice on Thursday – the first causing civilian casualties, the second hitting as emergency teams responded. Trump posted on social media that the bridge had been sent "tumbling down," promising "much more to follow!" The country's two largest steel plants have also been forced offline by repeated US and Israeli strikes, the companies said.

In a statement carried by state TV, the Iranian military's central command said its latest wave of attacks had targeted the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain and Israel in retaliation for strikes on its industrial facilities. It said targets included "American steel industries in Abu Dhabi, American aluminum industries in Bahrain, and the Rafael arms factories of the Zionist regime."The war continues to disrupt global shipping, with British Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper convening around 40 countries to demand the "immediate and unconditional reopening" of the Strait of Hormuz.The war continues to disrupt global shipping, with British Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper convening around 40 countries to demand the "immediate and unconditional reopening" of the Strait of Hormuz.Iran's Revolutionary Guards effectively shut the key waterway and oil conduit when the US and Israel launched the war, and Trump has made its reopening a condition for a ceasefire. Italy called for a "humanitarian corridor" to allow fertilizer and other essentials through the strait to avert a food crisis in Africa.

Tehran said it was drafting a post-war protocol with Oman to oversee shipping, but talks had not yet begun. Trump said talks could be possible with Iran's new leadership, which he described as "less radical and much more reasonable." Tehran has dismissed US overtures as "maximalist and irrational," saying messages had been relayed through intermediaries including Pakistan – but no direct talks were underway.Trump warned that without a deal, Washington had "our eyes on key targets," including power plants. Iran's health ministry said the Pasteur Institute in Tehran had been heavily damaged in a strike.

In Lebanon, Iran-backed militant group Hezbollah said it launched drones and rockets at northern Israel, a day after an Israeli strike in Beirut killed a senior commander, according to two sources. Lebanese authorities said seven people died in the strike.

Eighteen European countries have urged Israel and Hezbollah to halt fighting amid fears Israel could seize territory in southern Lebanon.

In Iraq, a drone targeted a US diplomatic and logistics site at Baghdad airport, security sources said. Gulf states once seen as safe havens are now under threat, with United Arab Emirates air defenses intercepting missiles and drones. The World Bank warned of risks to inflation, jobs and food security worldwide.During an address from the White House this evening, President Donald J. Trump told Americans that the U.S. military, as part of Operation Epic Fury, was nearing completion of operational objectives in Iran.Over the next few weeks, the president said, the U.S. would intensify operations in Iran, permanently disabling its ability to project power outside its own borders and to keep it from ever having a nuclear weapon. 

"I've made clear from the beginning of Operation Epic Fury that we will continue until our objectives are fully achieved," he said. "I can say tonight that we are on track to complete all of America's military objectives shortly, very shortly. We're going to hit them extremely hard over the next two to three weeks — we're going to bring them back to the Stone Age, where they belong." 

The United States kicked off combat operations against Iran Feb. 28, with specific goals: destroy Iranian offensive missiles and missile production, destroy the Iranian navy and other security infrastructure, and ensure that Iran never has nuclear weapons. 

Trump told the nation that the U.S. military has been masterful in how it has decimated one Iranian military capability after another. 

"We are systematically dismantling the regime's ability to threaten America or project power outside of their borders," the president said. "That means eliminating Iran's navy, which is now absolutely destroyed, hurting their air force and their missile program at levels never seen before, and annihilating their defense industrial base. We've done all of it; their navy is gone. Their air force is gone. Their missiles are just about used up or beaten."

The president said that, taken together, these actions have crippled Iran militarily and crushed its ability to support terrorist proxies.

According to U.S. Central Command, since the start of operations, over 12,300 sites have been struck in Iran, over 13,000 combat flights have been launched and over 155 Iranian military vessels have been damaged or destroyed.Even though the U.S. military continues to lock down Iran's ability to project power outside, Trump asked Americans to remember the military personnel who have lost their lives during the conflict. 

"We think especially of the 13 American warriors who have laid down their lives in this fight to prevent our children from ever having to face a nuclear Iran," the president said. "Twice this past month, I have traveled to Dover Air Force Base, [in Delaware]. ... I wanted to be with those heroes as they return to American soil. And I was with them and their families, their parents, their wives, their husbands. We salute them, and now we must honor them by completing the mission for which they gave their lives." 

The president also thanked allies in the Middle East, including Israel, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Bahrain, for providing support to American forces. 

"They've been great, and we will not let them get hurt or fail in any way, shape or form," he said. 

The president added that it's important for Americans to keep Operation Epic Fury in perspective, offering that World War II lasted nearly four years, the Korean War more than three years, the Vietnam War almost 20 years, and Operation Iraqi Freedom lasted well over eight years. 

"We are in this military operation — so powerful, so brilliant — against one of the most powerful countries, for 32 days," he said. "And the country has been eviscerated and essentially is really no longer a threat. They were the bully of the Middle East, but they're the bully no longer." 

The president noted that because of the U.S. military, Americans can now look forward to a world free from Iranian aggression and the fear of nuclear blackmail. 

"Because of the actions we have taken, we are on the cusp of ending Iran's sinister threat to America and the world," he said. "And I'll tell you, the world is watching. And when it's all over, the United States will be safer, stronger, more prosperous and greater than it has ever been before." Oil prices started climbing again after US President Donald Trump reiterated threats to hit Iran "extremely hard" in the coming weeks and failed to give concrete details on how the war will end.

Brent crude briefly surged past $109 (£82) a barrel and stock markets in the US, Europe and Asia fell following Trump's address from the White House.

He said that the US would complete its strategic objectives for the war "very shortly" and spend the next two to three weeks bombing Iran "back to the Stone Ages".

Earlier on Wednesday, oil prices dipped below $100 ahead of the speech on hopes Trump would say how the US would exit the conflict but his address repeated the same points he made previously.

The Iran war has severely disrupted global oil and gas supplies.

Oil shipments through the critical Strait of Hormuz waterway have mostly been halted after Iran threatened to attack tankers that try to cross in retaliation to US-Israeli strikes, which began on 28 February.

In his speech, Trump said the US did not need the Middle East's energy and urged other nations to step in to free up shipments from the Gulf that have been disrupted as a result of the war.
He said: "To those countries that can't get fuel, many of which refuse to get involved in the decapitation of Iran… build up some delayed courage, go to the Strait and just take it."

Oil prices, which had been fluctuating incrementally before, shot upwards moments after the televised speech.

Brent crude, the global benchmark, rose more than 8% on Thursday, before retreating a bit.

The US benchmark, West Texas Intermediate, which had been somewhat shielded from the price rises earlier in the conflict compared with Brent, also took off, briefly trading above $110 a barrel in Thursday morning trade in New York before dropping back a bit.

The rise was a "clear market reality check following the earlier optimism for an imminent ceasefire" said Alberto Bellorin, founder and managing director at InterCapital Energy, an oil and gas consultancy.

Trump's speech lacked a "concrete timeline" for the reopening of the Strait of Hormuz, while a return to normal now looks "months away rather than weeks," he added.

In urging other nations to step in, Trump has removed hopes that disruptions to global energy supplies will be resolved swiftly, Bellorin said.

In his speech, Trump said oil and gas flows would return quickly when the war ended."When this conflict is over, the strait will open up naturally. It will just open up naturally," he said.

But Anne-Sophie Corbeau, former head of gas analysis at oil giant BP, suggested it could take some time for flows to return to normal.

The Gulf's energy infrastructure has been damaged following strikes by Iran, Israel and the US and Corbeau said repairing it could take between three and five years.

Corbeau, who is now at Center on Global Energy Policy at Colombia, told the BBC's Today programme that disruption to traffic through the Strait of Hormuz was likely to persist and that additional costs in the form of fees to use the strait could be "quite substantial".

She said currently she understood ships were subject to a charge in the region of $2m for using the strait, which, if made permanent amounted to "the worst-case solution" for users of the waterway.

In the US, the S&P 500 and Nasdaq closed slightly higher - up 0.1% and 0.2% respectively after earlier losses. The Dow Jones Industrial Average ended trading down 0.1%.

In the UK, the FTSE 100 index fell in early afternoon trade but closed 0.69% higher. France's Cac index closed down 0.24%, and Germany's Dax closed down 0.79% - both regaining some earlier falls.
U.S. President Donald Trump threatened to destroy Iran’s bridges and power plants, saying the “New Regime leadership knows what has to be done, and has to be done, FAST!” in a Truth Social post late on Thursday.

His words come as the recently constructed B1 bridge near Tehran was destroyed in an airstrike. Eight people died in the attack, according to Iranian state media.

Trump’s post said the U.S. “hasn’t even started destroying what’s left in Iran. Bridges next, then Electric Power Plants!” In his post, Trump did not elaborate on what needed to be “done,” but said the U.S. “hasn’t even started destroying what’s left in Iran.”

On Friday, Trump said in another Truth Social post: “With a little more time, we can easily OPEN THE HORMUZ STRAIT, TAKE THE OIL,& MAKE A FORTUNE.”

“IT WOULD BE A “GUSHER” FOR THE WORLD???” said the post.On Friday, operations were suspended at the Abu Dhabi’s Hadshan gas facilities, after debris fell following a “successful interception by air defence systems.”

“Operations have been suspended while authorities respond to a fire. No injuries have been reported,” Abu Dhabi media center said on X.

Trump’s proclamations came as a U.S. fighter jet went down over Iran, MS Now reported, citing a U.S. official. The U.S. Central Command, which oversees the region, and Iranian authorities did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

Trump’s latest threat came after a Wednesday speech in which he said the U.S. military would hit Iran “extremely hard” for the next two or three weeks. He added that the U.S. would “bring them back to the Stone Ages where they belong.”

Hours after his speech, Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi struck a defiant tone on X, saying that “there was no oil or gas being pumped in the Middle East back then,” referring to Trump’s stone age remarks.

“Are POTUS and Americans who put him in office sure that they want to turn back the clock?” Araghchi said.

Iran has effectively shut tanker traffic through the Strait of Hormuz, a vital global oil route, after the U.S. and Israel attacked the country on Feb. 28.Trump has repeatedly threatened to send Iran back to the “stone age” as the war entered its second month and the U.S. military build-up in the Middle East showed no signs of slowing.

Despite reports of overtures from the U.S., including ceasefires and a 15-point peace plan to end the war, Iran has publicly contradicted multiple reports about negotiations with the Trump administration on numerous occasions.

Tehran had described the 15-point proposal as “extremely maximalist and unreasonable,” according to an Al Jazeera report on March 25, citing a high-ranking diplomatic source.

Trump said Wednesday that Iran’s “New Regime President” had asked Washington for a ceasefire, a claim that Tehran has denied. Trump has not specified who the “President” is.

“We will consider when Hormuz Strait is open, free, and clear. Until then, we are blasting Iran into oblivion or, as they say, back to the Stone Ages!!!,” he wrote.Attacks on power plants could constitute a war crime and violate international law, legal experts said.

In a letter dated Thursday and signed by over 100 law experts, the group said international law prohibits attacks on “objects indispensable to the survival of civilians, and the attacks threatened by Trump, if implemented, could entail war crimes.”

Trump had also earlier said that he could target water desalination plants in Iran.

China, Russia and France veto
The Gulf Cooperation Council on Thursday called on the United Nations Security Council to take “all necessary measures to ensure the immediate cessation of Iranian aggressions against the Council states.”

The six countries in the Gulf Cooperation Council — Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates — have come under attack from Iranian missiles and drones as the war entered its second month.The Kuwait Petroleum Corporation said that its Mina al-Ahmadi refinery was hit by drones early on Friday.

Jassim Albudaiwi, Secretary-General of the Gulf Cooperation Council, said that while the bloc does not seek war, Iran had “exceeded all red lines” and described Tehran’s attacks as “treacherous.”

Bahrain, the current rotating president of the Security Council, has led an effort to pass a U.N. resolution to ​authorize “all necessary means” to protect commercial shipping in and around the Strait of Hormuz.

But the proposal reportedly stalled after veto-wielding Security Council members China, Russia and France objected to the draft resolution, which would have authorized military action against Iran.
