US First Lady Melania Trump and her husband President Donald Trump have walked the black carpet at the premier of her new documentary. The BBC’s Nomia Iqbal speaks to voters in Philadelphia, where the tech billionaire campaigned for the president and even gave away a few $1m cheques. The former US president says he has no regrets over his late withdrawal in the contest against Donald Trump. Aged just 10 when his father first became president, he's now well over six feet tall, and goes to New York University. The US president spoke about his plans for the second Trump administration, as well as criticising the 'corrupt establishment'. Watch the historic moment when the 45th president is returned to power as he takes the oath of office. Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos were among those invited inside the Capitol for Donald Trump's swearing in. Thousands of people joined in on demonstrations as the United States prepares to inaugurate its new president. The outgoing US president warned against power in the hands of the wealthy, the threat of the tech industry and climate change. Trump's pick for US attorney general was pressed on claims of election fraud and pardons for January 6 rioters. Donald Trump's defence secretary nominee was asked about his stance on women in combat and his alleged excessive drinking. Harris, who Trump defeated in the 2024 election, presided over the event as required by the US Constitution. Among the allies the president-elect has chosen to join his administration are contentious figures, including among fellow Republicans. The president-elect has nominated RFK to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. The suspect used an “improvised incendiary device” to start the fire in Portland, Oregon, ahead of the US election. A week after losing the election, Kamala Harris's team are still appealing for funds. Republicans have won control of both chambers of Congress, yielding Trump limited congressional oversight for at least 2 years. The president and president-elect shook hands as part of a long-standing tradition signifying the transfer of power. Given all the things they’ve said about each other, Joe Biden and Donald Trump’s meeting could be really awkward. 'I think Putin believes that he knows how to play Trump', says Trump's former adviser John Bolton. Republicans say the legislation is necessary to stop voter fraud, but Democrats say it disenfranchises voters. The ruling says that releasing the report would cause "irreparable damage" to Trump and violate "basic notions of fairness and justice". US First Lady Melania Trump and her husband President Donald Trump have walked the black carpet at the premier of her new documentary. The former US Special Counsel faced questions about his two defunct criminal investigations into President Donald Trump. The former US Special Counsel is facing questions about his two defunct criminal investigations into President Donald Trump. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
There is little doubt that Donald Trump was more enthused about the day he spent at Windsor Castle than his talks with Sir Keir Starmer at Chequers. And that is no slight on the UK prime minister's hospitality during this state visit, which Trump and his team have been eager to praise. Starmer's country residence is undoubtedly an impressive meeting place, and there was even an aerial display by the British Army's Red Devils who flew enormous British and American flags to welcome the US leader to the Buckinghamshire countryside. But as much as Trump appears to genuinely like Starmer, with their warm relationship on display at a joint news conference on Thursday, the president was totally beguiled by being hosted by the King and Queen on Wednesday. According to his chief of staff, Susie Wiles, his definitive highlight of the trip was the elaborate evening banquet for 160 guests in Windsor Castle's St George's Hall that evening. For Trump, who has a deep and longstanding admiration for the Royals, it is hard to compete with being toasted by the King. No matter how many jets are laid on for you in the skies above Chequers. State visits like these allow presidents and prime ministers to connect with one other on a more personal level, and offer a chance for their respective staff to build working relationships. They are also an opportunity to demonstrate the closeness of relations on a big stage. In this sense, it was smooth sailing for both sides. There was no real awkwardness during the joint news conference, which had the potential to expose areas of disagreements. When the two men were asked about one of those issues, the UK's plan to recognise Palestinian statehood, Trump said he disagreed but also gave Starmer a big smile and a warm slap on the back as the prime minister condemned Hamas. And on another potentially tricky topic, the sacking of Peter Mandelson as UK ambassador to the US over his relationship with Jeffrey Epstein, Trump was unusually taciturn. He said very little and immediately deferred to Starmer. The two leaders did discuss Gaza and Ukraine when they spent almost an hour talking alone without any of their staff in the room. And while they were very amicable during the news conference, it also quickly became clear that neither had changed their positions on the key issues where they disagree. There are limits to how much influence any leader can have on Trump, regardless of the success of a trip such as this. Inside Chequers, I asked Wiles, the president's chief-of-staff, how much difference the visit will make to Britain's ability to influence US policy on trade, tariffs and international affairs. Her response was frank – none at all. However much Trump enjoyed this state visit, he is not going to alter his positions on important global matters because of a memorable night spent at Windsor Castle. But after all the pomp and pageantry, Starmer appears to have at least earned the right to respectfully disagree with Trump without paying a diplomatic penalty. It can be costly to get on the wrong side of the US president, but by carefully navigating the relationship the UK has managed to avoid the punishingly high trade tariffs that have been imposed on other nations. Starmer, meanwhile, has not been subjected to a humiliating dressing down or given a derogatory nickname. While this was never going to descend into the kind of awkward clash we've seen at times in the Oval Office this year - not just with Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky but with other leaders too - it is notable that a more relaxed Trump approached the questions during the concluding news conference in a far less combative way than he often does back in Washington. Did the UK prime minister play his "trump" card by arranging this lavish state visit? It was choreographed flawlessly and clearly delighted Trump and the first lady. And while Starmer may not have won the ability to change the president's mind, a falling out now feels further away than ever before. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The helicopter carrying US President Donald Trump was forced to divert to Luton Airport as he finished his state visit to the UK. White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said "due to a minor hydraulic issue", the aircraft landed at a "local airfield" before later reaching Stansted around 20 minutes behind schedule. She said the decision was taken "out of an abundance of caution" adding that the president and first lady "safely boarded the support helicopter". Emergency services were spotted on the tarmac at Luton following the landing. Separate images show both of Trump's helicopters, just off Luton's runway. They are specially adapted aircraft known as "white tops" because of their livery. The craft carrying the president is known as Marine One. The helicopters are fitted with missile defence and radar jamming systems as well as electronics designed to withstand the electromagnetic pulse of a nuclear blast. As a security measure, Marine One often flies in a group of identical helicopters acting as decoys. It is also usually accompanied by two or three Osprey MV-22s - tilt-rotor aircraft referred to as "green tops" that combine the vertical landing ability of a helicopter with the flying speed and efficiency of an aeroplane. The Ospreys carry support staff, special forces and secret service agents, who are tasked with dealing with any mid-flight emergency. Trump had been using the helicopter to travel between different locations on his unprecedented second state visit to the UK. He arrived at Stansted late on Tuesday night and was flown to Winfield House in central London - the official residence of the US ambassador to the UK. The following day, President Trump and his wife flew to Windsor Castle where they met the King and Queen. On Thursday, Trump was taken on Marine One from Windsor to Chequers for diplomatic talks with UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer. During a joint news conference at Chequers, the two leaders addressed a range of issues, including Ukraine, Gaza and illegal migration - a subject which Trump suggested Britain could solve by calling in the military. Trump said he had "a disagreement with the prime minister" on the subject of Palestinian statehood. Starmer plans to recognise Palestinian statehood ahead of next week's United Nations general assembly in New York. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Sir Keir Starmer and Donald Trump have delivered a joint press conference at the end of the US president's second state visit to the UK. The press conference at the PM's country residence Chequers, lasting just under an hour, saw the leaders field questions on topics ranging from world affairs to domestic politics. Trump spoke warmly about his relationship with the UK, and largely avoided talking about contentious issues that came up in the questioning. The UK's imminent recognition of Palestinian statehood was a potential flashpoint, with Trump having previously said that the move could reward Hamas. But asked directly about the UK's plans, Trump merely noted that he had a "disagreement" with Starmer on the issue, adding for good measure that it was one of only a "few disagreements" between the pair. Starmer emphasised that the timing of the UK's decision, which is set to take place in the coming days, had "nothing to do" with Trump's visit, and should be seen in the context of an overall plan for a "plan for peace" in the Middle East. And he added that Hamas, a designated terror group in the UK, could play "no part" in any future Palestinian state. Those comments were warmly welcomed by Trump, with the US president reaching across his podium to give Starmer a pat on the back. Trump was also given a chance to comment on another tricky political issue for Starmer - his efforts to stop illegal arrivals into Britain amid record numbers of small boat crossings in the English Channel this year. This time however the US president did not mince his words, suggesting Starmer should potentially involve the military, and warning that illegal migration "destroys countries from within". Trump referred to his approach to securing the US border and said the pair had discussed the issue during their private meeting earlier. He added: "I think your situation is very similar. You have people coming in, and I told the prime minister I would stop it, and it doesn't matter if you call out the military, it doesn't matter what means you use." Starmer said the first flight under the migrant returns deal with France taking off earlier, calling it an "important step forward" on the small boats issue. An area where the pair were seemingly united was in condemning Russia over its full-scale invasion of Ukraine, after Trump said earlier this week said he could impose tougher sanctions on the country if Nato allies meet certain conditions. Starmer condemned recent Russian missile attacks that saw damage to the British Council building in Kyiv, and said the recent actions of Russian President Vladimir Putin were not those of someone who wants peace. The US president said Putin had "really let me down", admitting he thought solving the Russia-Ukraine war would be one of the easier conflicts to deal with. He added, however, that he did not regret holding the peace summit in Alaska with Putin a few months ago, and he felt an "obligation" to help find an end to the war due to the enormous loss of life in the conflict. Another potential point of tension was the subject of free speech, after Trump's vice-president JD Vance's scalding attack on European democracies, including the UK, over the issue earlier this year. But asked whether he agreed with Vance and whether the issue remained an important area of disagreement with Starmer, Trump chose not to comment, instead moving to the next question. Starmer promised the UK would protect free speech "jealously and fiercely," calling it one of the country's "founding values". But he said free speech had to be balanced against the need for protections, such as protecting children from paedophiles and "those that peddle suicide" online. The state visit has taken place one week after Sir Keir sacked former Labour minister Lord Mandelson as his ambassador to the US over his past friendship with the convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. That had the potential to be awkward for both the prime minister and the US president, who also had a friendship with the now-deceased Epstein before falling out with him in the early 2000s, prior to the late financier's conviction for soliciting prostitution from a minor. Referring to Mandelson as the "elephant in the room", Sky News reporter Beth Rigby asked Trump if he had sympathy with the sacked Labour peer. Despite having shaken hands with Lord Mandelson in the Oval Office earlier this year, Trump replied: "I don't know him, actually," before suggesting Sir Keir would be better placed to speak on the subject. The prime minister repeated his previous assertion that he had sacked Lord Mandelson after new information came to light about his association with Epstein. Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to keep up with the inner workings of Westminster and beyond. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
After staying overnight in Windsor Castle, US President Donald Trump bid farewell to the King and Queen. "He's a great gentleman and a great King," the US president told the waiting media. Queen Camilla, King Charles, President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump posed for a final group picture on the final day of the state visit. Unlike Wednesday, neither the Queen nor the first lady wore exuberant hats. The first lady had a final round of engagements in Windsor, including a visit to the Royal Library and Queen Mary's Dolls' House with the Queen. The dolls' house was built between 1921 and 1924 for Queen Mary and designed by the British architect Sir Edwin Lutyens. President Trump then headed to Chequers to meet Sir Keir Starmer, making the short journey from Windsor Castle by the Marine One helicopter. A car entourage was ready to greet the president and take him to the prime minister's country house. Sir Keir Starmer and his wife Lady Victoria Starmer gave President Trump a warm welcome, showing him around the residence ahead of their bilateral meeting. Inside Chequers, the US President viewed the Sir Winston Churchill archives alongside the UK Prime Minister, before engaging in bilateral talks. The Princess of Wales and the US first lady joined 20 Squirrel Scouts, the youngest group in the Scout Association, who were taking part in nature activities in Frogmore Gardens on the Windsor Castle estate to earn their Go Wild badges. Later, Starmer and Trump attended a business reception hosted by the UK Chancellor. They signed a new technology partnership, which Starmer said would see billions flowing "both ways of the Atlantic". A joint news conference took place that afternoon, prior to the President and First Lady's departure for the US. The President and first lady were honoured with a spectacular aerial display by the British Army's Red Devils to commemorate their historic state visit. The president and PM held a joint news conference before taking questions from journalists on a variety of issues, including the war in Ukraine, Gaza and border security. The pair spoke at the conclusion of Trump's state visit to the UK. At the end of the news conference, which covered a wide range of topics, the president and first lady posed for photographs with Sir Keir Starmer and his wife, Victoria, before making their way to London Stansted Airport by helicopter, where they boarded Air Force One for their journey back to the US. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin have left Alaska without reaching an agreement for a ceasefire in Ukraine. After an almost three-hour meeting, the leaders delivered a joint statement to the media before leaving without taking questions. Three BBC correspondents who are in Anchorage for the summit assess what it means for the US and Russian leaders as well as what happens next in the war in Ukraine. By North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher "There's no deal until there's a deal," Donald Trump said early in his post-summit remarks here in Anchorage. It was a roundabout way of conceding that after several hours of talks, there's no  deal. No ceasefire. Nothing tangible to report. The president said that he and Vladimir Putin made "some great progress", but with little details about what that might be, it's left to the world's imagination. "We didn't get there," he later said, before exiting the room without taking any questions from the hundreds of gathered reporters. Trump travelled a long way only to produce such vague statements, even if America's European allies and Ukrainian officials may be relieved he did not offer unilateral concessions or agreements that could have undermined future negotiations. For the man who likes to tout himself as a peacemaker and a dealmaker, it appears that Trump will leave Alaska with neither. There are also no indications that a future summit that includes Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is forthcoming, Putin's "next time in Moscow" quip about their next meeting notwithstanding. While Trump had less at stake during these negotiations than Ukraine or Russia, it still will put a dent in his domestic and international prestige after earlier promises that this meeting had only a 25% chance of failure. What's more, the president had to suffer the apparent indignity of standing silent as Putin started off the press-conference-that-wasn't with extensive opening remarks. It was a marked difference than the normal routine in the Oval Office, when the US president typically holds court while his foreign counterpart looks on without comment. While Alaska is American territory, Putin seemed more at home in what his officials like to note was once "Russian America" before its 19th Century sale to the US. That may eat at the American president over the coming days, as will press coverage that will present this summit as a flop. The big question now - one reporters were unable to ask on Friday - is whether Trump will decide to impose his much-threatened new sanctions on Russia as punishment. The president partially addressed that in the friendly confines of a Fox News interview before flying out, saying that he would consider such a move "maybe in two weeks, three weeks". But given the president promised "severe consequences" if Russia did not move towards a ceasefire, such a unspecific answer may prompt more questions than it answers. By Steve Rosenberg, Russia editor When is a "press conference" not a press conference? There was palpable surprise in the hall when Presidents Putin and Trump left the podium as soon as they'd delivered their statements – without taking any questions. Members of the Russian delegation, too, left the room swiftly without answering any of the questions journalists were shouting at them. Clear signs that when it comes to the war in Ukraine, Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump still have a major difference of opinion. Donald Trump has been pushing for a Russian ceasefire. Vladimir Putin didn't give it to him. There was a very different vibe earlier in the day. President Trump had rolled out the red carpet for Vladimir Putin, treating the Kremlin leader as an honoured guest. The Russian president got his moment in the geo-political limelight, sharing the stage with the leader of the world's most powerful country. But how will Trump react to what happened?  He still hasn't managed to persuade Putin to end Russia's war in Ukraine. Previously he'd threatened a tougher approach to Russia, with ultimatums, deadlines and warnings of more sanctions if Moscow ignored calls for a ceasefire. By Vitaliy Shevchenko, Russia Editor BBC Monitoring What just happened in Anchorage may feel anti-climactic for many, but in Kyiv there will be sighs of relief that no "deal" has been announced that would cost Ukraine territory. People of Ukraine will also know that all of their key deals with Russia have ended up broken, so even if one had been announced here in Anchorage, they would have been sceptical. Ukrainians will be alarmed, however, that at the joint appearance in front of the media Vladimir Putin yet again spoke of the "root causes" of the conflict and said only their removal would lead to lasting peace. Translated from Kremlin-speak, this means he is still determined to pursue the original objective of his "special military operation" - which is to dismantle Ukraine as an independent state. Three-and-a-half years of Western efforts have failed to make him change his mind, and that now includes the Alaska summit. The uncertainty that persists after the meeting is also worrying. What happens next? Will Russia's attacks continue unabated? The past few months have seen a succession of Western deadlines that came and went without consequences, and threats that were never carried out. Ukrainians see this as an invitation for Putin to continue his attacks. They may see the apparent lack of progress achieved Anchorage in the same light. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Donald Trump has said he will deploy hundreds of National Guard troops to Washington DC and is taking control of its police department to fight crime. At a press conference, he declared "Liberation Day" for the city and pledged to "rescue our nation's capital from crime, bloodshed, bedlam and squalor and worse". However, Washington DC Mayor Muriel Bowser has said the city has "seen a huge decrease in crime" and that it was "at a 30-year violent crime low". BBC Verify looks at what the figures show about violent crime in the capital and how it compares to other cities in the US. Trump's executive order declaring "a crime emergency in the District of Columbia" mentions "rising violence in the capital". In his press conference he made repeated references to crime being "out of control". But according to crime figures published by Washington DC's Metropolitan Police (MPDC), violent offences fell after peaking in 2023 and in 2024 hit their lowest level in 30 years. They are continuing to fall, according to preliminary data for 2025. Violent crime overall is down 26% this year compared to the same point in 2024, and robbery is down 28%, according to the MPDC. Trump and the DC Police Union have questioned the veracity of the city police department's crime figures. Violent crime is reported differently by the MPDC and the FBI - another major source of US crime statistics. MPDC public data showed a 35% fall for 2024, while the FBI data showed a 9% drop. So the figures agree that crime is falling in DC, but differ on the level of that decline. The downward trend is "unmistakable and large", according to Adam Gelb, the CEO of the Council on Criminal Justice (CCJ), a legal think tank. "The numbers shift depending on what time period and what types of crime you examine," said Mr Gelb. "But overall there's an unmistakable and large drop in violence since the summer of 2023, when there were peaks in homicide, gun assaults, robbery, and carjacking." Trump also claimed that "murders in 2023 reached the highest rate probably ever" in Washington DC - adding that numbers "just go back 25 years". When we asked the White House the source for the figures, they said it was "numbers provided by the FBI". The homicide rate did spike in 2023 to around 40 per 100,000 residents - the highest rate in 20 years, according to FBI data. However, that was not the highest ever recorded - it was significantly higher in the 1990s and in the early 2000s. The homicide rate dropped in 2024 and this year it is down 12% on the same point last year, according to the MPDC. Studies have suggested that the capital's homicide rate is higher than average, when compared to other major US cities. As of 11 August, there have been 99 homicides so far this year in Washington DC - including a 21-year-old congressional intern shot dead in crossfire, a case Trump referred to in his press conference. The president also mentioned the case of a 19-year-old former employee of the Department of Government Efficiency (Doge) who was injured in an alleged attempted carjacking in the capital at the start of August. Trump claimed "the number of carjackings has more than tripled" over the last five years. So far this year, the MPDC has recorded 189 carjacking offences, down from 300 in the same period last year. According to the CCJ, carjacking rose markedly from 2020 onward and spiked to a monthly peak of 140 reported incidents in June 2023. Since July 2025, a citywide curfew has been in force for people under the age of 17 from 23:00 to 06:00. It was introduced to combat juvenile crime - including carjacking - which often spikes in the summer months. "The level of violence in the District remains mostly higher than the average of three dozen cities in our sample," Mr Gelb from the CCJ told us. "Although its downward trend is consistent with what we're seeing in other large cities across the country," he added. The CCJ looks at crime rates across 30 large US cities. Its analysis suggests that the homicide rate in DC fell 19% in the first half of this year (January-June 2025), compared with the same period last year. This is a slightly larger fall than the 17% average decline across the cities in the CCJ's study sample. However, if you take the first six months of 2025 and compare it to the same period in 2019 - before the Covid-19 pandemic - it shows only a 3% fall in homicides. Across the 30 cities in the study, that decrease was 14% over the same timeframe. What do you want BBC Verify to investigate? Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
It was a warm, late May afternoon in 2024 in lower Manhattan. The jury in Donald Trump's trial over hush money paid by his former lawyer to adult film star Stormy Daniels was out deliberating for a second day. Assuming we were in for a long wait, I took myself off to lunch with the BBC team at the world-famous Katz's deli for a Reuben sandwich. Then all hell broke loose. The jury was returning. According to one rumour, they were just being sent home for the day; another suggested there was a verdict. Seconds before the BBC News at Ten went on air, I arrived breathless at the live television point outside the courthouse, smashing my phone screen on the pavement in my hurry. One by one, the verdicts filtered through: guilty... guilty... guilty... it went on. All 34 charges came back guilty, and I spent that night's main news bulletin explaining the enormity of the idea that a former president was now a convicted felon – a first in US history. As the BBC's senior North America correspondent, I'd spent months covering the multitude of Trump's legal problems in courts up and down the East Coast. Four separate criminal cases; several civil actions; it was coming at him from all sides, threatening not just his liberty but his whole political and commercial existence. Spool on a year, and the boot is thoroughly on the other foot. Three major Supreme Court judgments – one giving presidents and former presidents broad immunity from prosecution; a second dismissing the ruling that Trump's attempts to overturn the 2020 election results disqualified him from running for office again; and a third, just last month, curbing district judges' abilities to stall the president's agenda – have all emboldened this president who, having reshaped the Supreme Court with a solid conservative majority, now has the lower courts in his sights. Those federal district judges – who had often made rulings on immigration policy that they said applied nationwide – are now facing a full-frontal onslaught from an administration that has questioned their legitimacy, and some say flouted their very authority. The question is, should they fight back to reassert their authority – and if so, how can they? And will this all permanently reshape the balance of powers in the US, even after Donald Trump's term ends? Several judges – both active and retired – have told me that the scale of the "attack" is like nothing seen before. John E Jones III, a former judge in Pennsylvania, appointed by a Republican president, and now president of Dickinson College, said: "I think it's fair to say that in particular, the US district courts… [are] under attack by the administration in a way that is unprecedented." As well as his colourful remarks to me on the phone during our recent interview, the US President has variously called judges "crooked", "monsters", "deranged", "lunatics", "USA hating", and "radical left". He has also called for the impeachment of those he disagrees with. And there have been threats to sue judges too. His deputy chief of staff for policy, Stephen Miller, has been even more forthright, declaring that the country is living under a judicial tyranny. "Each day, they change the foreign policy, economic, staffing, and national security policies of the administration," he posted on the social media site X in March. "It is madness. It is lunacy. It is pure lawlessness. "It is the gravest assault on democracy. It must and will end." Judges have faced growing hostility, and in some cases threats of violence from the public. "[They] are facing threats that they never have faced before," says Nancy Gertner, a former federal judge who now teaches at Harvard Law School. She was appointed by President Bill Clinton and spent 17 years on the federal bench in Massachusetts. "There's no question that the kind of opprobrium that the administration heaps on judges with whom they disagree is unlike any other time." Judge Gertner says she knows of serving judges who have received death threats this year that are understood to have been prompted by their blocking or delaying some of the president's executive orders. There is no suggestion that Trump had any knowledge of the threats. Figures compiled by the US Marshals Service, which is tasked with protecting the judiciary, show that, to mid-June, there were more than 400 threats against almost 300 judges – surpassing the totals for the entire year of 2022. Some of the threats involve doxxing – the publication of personal information about the person or their family, which risks opening them up to attack. Other forms of intimidation this year have been more sinister still. According to Esther Salas, a serving district judge in New Jersey, more than 100 judges have been subjected to fake pizza delivery orders. No big deal, you might think, but the deliveries are often accompanied with threats and in around 20 cases, the orders were placed by people who used the name Daniel Anderl, Judge Salas's late son. He was killed five years ago by a disgruntled lawyer from a case heard by his mother. The assailant, who also shot her husband, had posed as a pizza delivery man. Judge Salas told me of her reaction to hearing what was going on: "To say that I was angry is an understatement. And then of course, to have come home and tell my husband who nearly [died]." The rise in threats began before the current administration but Judge Salas says we are in new territory now. "We are inviting individuals to do us harm when inflammatory rhetoric [is used]," she claims. "That is giving a green light to anyone who thinks they may need to take things into their own hands. And our leaders know that." Many supporters of the current administration including Jeff Anderson, one of the architects of the Project 2025 program (which many saw as a blueprint for Trump's second term), reject the idea that presidential rhetoric is to blame for raising the temperature. Mr Anderson argues that the left is more to blame for hostility towards judges: "The most high-profile threat to anyone on the federal courts was when someone tried to assassinate [the conservative] Supreme Court Justice Brett Kavanaugh. "There's this tendency to try to characterise the Trump administration as being what has facilitated this. I think a lot of the more radical revolutionary notions that we need to take law in our own hands and the ends justify the means… tend to [be] from the left in America." While other presidents have clashed with the courts, Trump's confrontations are unquestionably unique in their scale and fury, and they were perhaps inevitable, given that he arrived in the White House with a blizzard of executive orders aimed at getting what he wanted quickly. On day one alone, 26 were signed. There have been another 140 to the beginning of July – more than President Joe Biden signed during his four-year term, and only around 100 fewer than President Barack Obama in his eight years in the White House. Trump could have asked Congress to enact laws to implement these policies; after all, Republicans currently control both chambers. But that process takes time, and Congress has been preoccupied with the president's flagship domestic legislation – the so-called "Big Beautiful Bill" – meaning that there has been no time or political capital for other priorities. Of course, executive orders are perfectly within the president's prerogative. The power to make executive orders comes directly from Article II of the US Constitution, so Trump is not defying or bypassing the constitution – he's pulling the levers of government in a way he's allowed to do, provided the orders cite legislative authority; and those orders do have the force of law. What the president can't do, with the sweep of his pen, is make new laws, or do things that go contrary to the Constitution. And if Congress doesn't step in, then the only option for those who want to challenge the orders is to go to court. The sweeping nature of the orders he has signed, many touching on constitutional issues such as the right of everyone born in the US to citizenship, has led to dozens of nationwide injunctions pending the outcome on the merits of the individual cases. That is why Trump's Supreme Court victory at the end of June, curbing such nationwide injunctions, is so significant. "These district court judges have been totally out of line and out of control," argues Jeff Anderson. The administration has deployed various arguments. The judiciary has been accused of "overreach" and judges themselves accused of being "activists". But perhaps the most fundamental – and most philosophical – criticism is that they are standing in the way of the will of the people. As Stephen Miller has put it, "out of control Marxist judges" are standing in the way of the "desires of the electorate". It's an argument that, according to many judges, misunderstands the constitution in a fundamental way. "We're a nation of laws, not men," explains judge John E Jones III. "A mandate to the president of the United States does not mean a mandate to disregard the law. That's evident, but this is papering over a fundamental disregard of the law and the constitution." There are signs that some individuals in the administration, despite its assertions to the contrary, could well be toying with flouting the authority of the courts. The president's border tsar, Tom Homan, went on television over a court's attempts to prevent the deportation of several hundred Venezuelans and said: "I'm proud to be a part of this administration. We're not stopping. … I don't care what the judges think." But, in his interview with me last week, the President denied he was defying the judiciary, pointing out that when rulings have gone against him, he has sought remedy through the court process. "I have too much respect for it to defy it. I have great respect for the judiciary. And you can see that," he told me, adding: "That's why I'm winning on appeal." Some vocal critics of the president go further and claim he's tearing up the whole system of checks and balances in which the three equal branches of government (the presidency, congress and the judiciary) each act as a brake on the others. "This is a huge turning point for the country," says Professor Laurence Tribe, one of the nation's foremost constitutional experts, who has become a forthright critic of the president. He argues that Congress has ceased to perform its oversight function and fears "the United States is facing a catastrophic situation". "The idea of three branches… was hatched at our founding - before the rise of political parties and before the rise of demagogues as effective and charismatic as Trump," he told me. "The whole system is completely out of balance." That balance that Professor Tribe talks about has long been debated and the shift in power towards the presidency is not a new complaint. After the Watergate scandal in the 1970s, which saw President Richard Nixon flout many of the norms followed by previous presidents, a whole slew of legislation was passed to curb the executive and make it more accountable. But some of the changes involved merely adopting new norms such as publication of presidential tax returns and avoiding financial conflicts of interest – and this president has showed little concern to be seen to follow those norms. When it comes to the relationship between the presidency and the courts, though, even Nixon stopped short of defying their authority, eventually handing over the infamous Watergate tapes, after months of refusing to do so, once the Supreme Court unanimously ordered it. Trump has come close to defiance. In one instance, after being ordered to facilitate the return of a man wrongly deported to El Salvador, Kilmar Ábrego García, the administration was accused of slow-walking the process of complying with the Supreme Court's decision. Even Trump's Attorney General, Pam Bondi, said: "He's not coming back to our country." It took two months for the administration to follow the court's order. That was seen by the president's critics as a taste of what could follow. After all, there are only two ways a president can be truly held to account – one is by removal at an election; the second is by impeachment in Congress, and Trump has already survived two of those. But if there truly is a plan to defy or neuter the courts, the judiciary is not giving in without a fight. Even after the Supreme Court ruled to curb those nationwide injunctions at the end of June (incidentally, presidents of both parties have complained about such injunctions in the past), another judge slapped one on Trump's asylum policy. Earlier this month, a US district judge issued a fresh nationwide block on Trump's executive order restricting the automatic right to citizenship for babies born to undocumented migrants or foreign visitors, drawing more furious words from the White House. This battle is enjoined, but it's far from over – and its consequences for this president and future presidents are unpredictable. Top image credits: Bloomberg via Getty and EPA-EFEREXShutterstock BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. And we showcase thought-provoking content from across BBC Sounds and iPlayer too. You can send us your feedback on the InDepth section by clicking on the button below. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Donald Trump's nominee to lead the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) has proposed ending releasing the agency's closely watched jobs report each month. Conservative economist EJ Antoni, a longtime critic of the bureau, floated the idea in an interview with Fox News published online on Tuesday. The idea raised new alarm over the agency's future and the reliability of its statistics, which are used by political leaders, investors and everyday Americans to get a sense of how the world's richest country is faring. Trump fired its former leader this month after the agency reported a sharp slowdown in jobs growth. Trump accused the commissioner, Erika McEntarfer, of having "rigged" the numbers - a claim that was widely rejected by economists. They likewise panned his pick of Antoni, saying his economic commentary was rife with basic mistakes. After the interview was published, an economist who has advised Republicans in the past posted: "Senators who vote to confirm Antoni are voting to essentially eviscerate the BLS and its jobs data." "The articles and tweets I've seen him publish are probably the most error-filled of any think tank economist right now," Jessica Riedl, a senior fellow at another conservative think tank, the Manhattan Institute, also wrote on social media. Antoni, a federal budget analyst at the Heritage Foundation, is a longtime critic of the BLS. He has called its statistics "phoney baloney" and last year urged the Department of Government Efficiency (Doge) "to take a chainsaw to the BLS". In the Fox interview, he said the jobs report, which includes the country's unemployment rate, the number of jobs created over the last month, and other data,  was unreliable. "It's a serious problem that needs to be fixed immediately," Antoni said in the Fox interview, which was conducted before Trump named him to lead the BLS. "Until it is corrected, the BLS should suspend issuing the monthly job reports but keep publishing the more accurate, though less timely, quarterly data," he added. Senator Bill Cassidy, the Republican chairman of the Senate committee that will consider his nomination, had criticised McEntarfer after a major revision to employment data last year and said that the reports had become less accurate under her leadership. He said in a statement he would meet with Antoni and that "we need a BLS Commissioner committed to producing accurate, unbiased economic information to the American people". But in a blistering post on X afer the Fox interview was published, a top Democrat on the committee, Patty Murray, wrote:  "Any Senator who votes to confirm this partisan hack is voting to shred the integrity of our nation's best economic and jobs data, which underpin our entire economy." She then said that she believed BLS data would become "make-believe" under Antoni. White House spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt said on Tuesday that it was "the plan and the hope" that the BLS would continue publishing monthly jobs reports, but repeated criticism of the agency's statistics. "We need to look at the means and the methods of how the BLS is acquiring this very important data," she said. "The goal of course is to provide honest and good data for the American people." The fight over the BLS comes at a time of heightened debate over the US economy and to what extent significant new tariffs will drive up prices for businesses and consumers and slow growth. The most recent reports from the BLS showed jobs growth declining and prices continuing to rise, although at the same pace as last month. Private companies also conduct surveys to gauge inflation and hiring but they are seen as less reliable than the government data. The Trump administration has taken other steps to reduce longstanding - and sometimes basic - government functions. His education secretary, Linda McMahon, has pledged to dismantle the department she leads, while Lee Zeldin, head of of the Environmental Protection Agency, has refocused his agency's mission on deregulation, recently announcing a plan to scrap a landmark finding that greenhouse gases are harmful to the environment. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Uncertainty remains over JET's long-term funding, after ministers agreed a 2026 deal in January. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US Senate has voted to confirm President Donald Trump's former defence lawyer, Emil Bove, to a lifetime appointment as a judge on a federal appeals court. Democrats all opposed the move, with two Republicans joining them to vote against Bove by a vote of 50-49 on Tuesday evening. Bove is considered Trump's most contentious judicial pick to date, having defended him in three of the four criminal trials he faced after finishing his first term in office in 2020. During his confirmation hearings, Bove, 44, denied he was Trump's "henchman". He has also denied whistleblowers' claims that he had told staff to flout the law and misled senators. Bove will serve on the US Court of Appeals for the 3rd Circuit, which oversees cases from Delaware, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. "He has a strong legal background and has served his country honourably. I believe he will be diligent, capable and a fair jurist," the Republican chairman of the judiciary committee, Chuck Grassley, said ahead of the vote. Lisa Murkowski, of Alaska, and Susan Collins, of Maine, were the two Republican senators who sided with Democrats to oppose Bove's confirmation. Dick Durbin, the ranking Democrat on the judiciary committee, said in a statement: "Mr Bove's primary qualification appears to be his blind loyalty to this president." Since Trump returned to office in January, Bove has been serving as principal associate deputy attorney general at the US Department of Justice. Democrats accuse him of overseeing mass firings of prosecutors who were seen as insufficiently loyal to Trump. Two whistleblowers had accused Bove of telling subordinates that court orders thwarting Trump's deportation efforts might have to be ignored. A third whistleblower alleged Bove had misled senators when discussing his role in the dismissal of corruption charges against New York Mayor Eric Adams. Democrats say the case was dropped after Adams agreed to co-operate on Trump's immigration enforcement goals in the city. Bove denied any wrongdoing. More than 900 former justice department employees signed an open letter calling for Bove's name to be withdrawn. A group of more than 75 retired state and federal judges also wrote to the committee. They said it was "deeply inappropriate" for a president to nominate his own criminal defence attorney for a federal judgeship. Trump has selected several lawyers who were part of his legal defence team to serve in government roles. Alina Habba was chosen to be New Jersey's top federal prosecutor, and Todd Blanche is now deputy attorney general. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US First Lady Melania Trump and her husband President Donald Trump have walked the black carpet at the premier of her new documentary. The BBC’s Nomia Iqbal speaks to voters in Philadelphia, where the tech billionaire campaigned for the president and even gave away a few $1m cheques. The former US president says he has no regrets over his late withdrawal in the contest against Donald Trump. Aged just 10 when his father first became president, he's now well over six feet tall, and goes to New York University. The US president spoke about his plans for the second Trump administration, as well as criticising the 'corrupt establishment'. Watch the historic moment when the 45th president is returned to power as he takes the oath of office. Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos were among those invited inside the Capitol for Donald Trump's swearing in. Thousands of people joined in on demonstrations as the United States prepares to inaugurate its new president. The outgoing US president warned against power in the hands of the wealthy, the threat of the tech industry and climate change. Trump's pick for US attorney general was pressed on claims of election fraud and pardons for January 6 rioters. Donald Trump's defence secretary nominee was asked about his stance on women in combat and his alleged excessive drinking. Harris, who Trump defeated in the 2024 election, presided over the event as required by the US Constitution. Among the allies the president-elect has chosen to join his administration are contentious figures, including among fellow Republicans. The president-elect has nominated RFK to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. The suspect used an “improvised incendiary device” to start the fire in Portland, Oregon, ahead of the US election. A week after losing the election, Kamala Harris's team are still appealing for funds. Republicans have won control of both chambers of Congress, yielding Trump limited congressional oversight for at least 2 years. The president and president-elect shook hands as part of a long-standing tradition signifying the transfer of power. Given all the things they’ve said about each other, Joe Biden and Donald Trump’s meeting could be really awkward. 'I think Putin believes that he knows how to play Trump', says Trump's former adviser John Bolton. Republicans say the legislation is necessary to stop voter fraud, but Democrats say it disenfranchises voters. The ruling says that releasing the report would cause "irreparable damage" to Trump and violate "basic notions of fairness and justice". US First Lady Melania Trump and her husband President Donald Trump have walked the black carpet at the premier of her new documentary. The former US Special Counsel faced questions about his two defunct criminal investigations into President Donald Trump. The former US Special Counsel is facing questions about his two defunct criminal investigations into President Donald Trump. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Robert F Kennedy Jr, one of President Donald Trump's most controversial cabinet picks, has been sworn in as the next US Health and Human Services Secretary. The former presidential candidate will now oversee key health agencies with about 80,000 employees and a trillion-dollar budget. Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle had questioned his baseless health claims and vaccine scepticism. On Thursday, Kennedy was confirmed by a 52-48 vote. No Democrats backed him. Former Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell was the lone Republican to vote against Kennedy. Kennedy is the latest cabinet appointee installed as the president seeks to rapidly overhaul almost every level of government. The Senate is putting in late nights and early mornings as they hurry to round out the president's cabinet by confirming his remaining nominees. Lawmakers also approved Brooke Rollins as head of the Department of Agriculture by a vote of 72-28. Kennedy, who had his swearing in ceremony in the Oval Office, is the second controversial cabinet pick to be confirmed this week after Tulsi Gabbard was confirmed as director of National Intelligence in a narrow Senate vote on Wednesday. He will now oversee agencies such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Kennedy will also be charged with overseeing the US health industry which includes food safety, pharmaceuticals, public health and vaccinations. He ran for the White House himself in 2024 as an independent, but dropped out and backed Trump. The president's decision to tap Kennedy to lead the federal health agency drew scepticism from several Republicans. Many questioned Kennedy's past comments on immunisations, his ties to groups making unsubstantiated health claims and his views on abortion. Kennedy is the founder of the anti-vaccine group Children's Health Defense, which gained prominence in the US for casting doubt on the safety and efficacy of childhood vaccinations and making the discredited claim that the shots are linked to autism. Kennedy, the nephew of former President John F Kennedy, has denied that he is anti-vaccination, pointing out his own children are immunised. He insisted during his confirmation hearings that he merely supports more stringent studies and safety tests for injections. Some Republicans have praised Kennedy for his criticism over the use of food additives and push to curb big pharma. During the hearings, lawmakers also grilled Kennedy on his promotion of health misinformation and knowledge of the US healthcare system. He was asked to explain his stance on abortion, as he previously indicated that he was in favour of abortion rights. He responded by telling lawmakers he agreed with Trump that access to abortion should be controlled by individual states and that "every abortion is a tragedy". The exchange drew scrutiny from Democrats who accused Kennedy of "selling out" his pro-choice values in order to secure President Trump's nomination. One of his hearings was interrupted by shouting protesters. But he also received loud applause when promising to make America healthy again, a slogan used by Trump's administration. Ahead of the hearing, Caroline Kennedy - the cousin of Robert F Kennedy Jr - urged US senators to reject him as the next health and human services secretary. She said Kennedy's views on vaccines disqualify him from the role of being one of America's leading health policymakers. It wasn't enough to dissuade several Republicans who previously withheld their support from Kennedy but wound up approving his nomination during Thursday's vote. Many eyes were on Louisiana Senator Bill Cassidy, a Republican, who chairs the Senate Health Committee. Cassidy, a doctor, previously indicated that he was struggling with Kennedy's stance on vaccines. He voted to confirm Kennedy. "We need to make America healthy again, and it is my expectation that Secretary Kennedy will get this done," Cassidy posted on X after the vote. Others closely watched McConnell, a Kennedy critic and polio survivor. McConnell had warned Kennedy not to undermine the polio vaccine. "Individuals, parents, and families have a right to push for a healthier nation and demand the best possible scientific guidance on preventing and treating illness," McConnell said in a statement. "But a record of trafficking in dangerous conspiracy theories and eroding trust in public health institutions does not entitle Mr. Kennedy to lead these important efforts." The Senate continues moving forward with Trump's nominees. After confirming Kennedy, lawmakers are expected to advance the nomination of Howard Lutnick as the next Secretary of Commerce. This tees up the final vote for his confirmation to take place next week. Lawmakers are also expected to take up the nomination of Kash Patel, Trump's controversial choice to lead the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), and Kelly Loeffler, Trump's pick for Small Business Administrator, after the picks received approval from a key committee on Thursday. Trump's pick to head the education department, Linda McMahon had her confirmation hearing on Thursday as well. This puts a handful of cabinet picks through a key hurdle and sets up confirmation votes of Lutnick and Loeffler no sooner than Tuesday, given the President's Day long weekend. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The new team entrusted with delivering Donald Trump's agenda is in place, featuring several contentious picks. Ahead of his return to the White House on 20 January 2025, he appointed Fox News host and military veteran Pete Hegseth as defence secretary and vaccine sceptic Robert F Kennedy Jr as health secretary—both confirmed by the Senate. Marco Rubio is the secretary of state, while billionaire supporter Elon Musk is advising on mass layoffs, contract terminations, and a drastic federal government downsizing. Here's a closer look at his top officials: Secretary of state - Marco Rubio Florida Senator Rubio, 53, was confirmed as US secretary of state just hours after Trump was sworn into office. He is now serving as the top US diplomat when representing the country overseas, and also the president's main adviser on foreign affairs. Rubio, who is the first Latino person to hold the post in US history, takes a hawkish view of China. He opposed Trump in the 2016 Republican primary but has since mended fences. Defence secretary - Pete Hegseth Hegseth, a military veteran and Fox News host with no prior political experience,  was confirmed as defence secretary less than a week after Trump's inauguration. His appointment was highly anticipated amid ongoing wars in Ukraine and Gaza. "Nobody fights harder for the troops," Trump said of Hegseth. After Hegseth's nomination it emerged that he was investigated in 2017 for an alleged sexual assault. He was never arrested or charged and denies the allegation. His lawyer confirmed he paid a woman that year to stay silent about a separate assault claim he feared could cost him his Fox job—an accusation he also denies. Trump's first pick for attorney general, former Florida Congressman Matt Gaetz, withdrew after a week of controversy over a congressional investigation into sexual misconduct and drug allegations against him, which he denied. Six hours later, Trump named former Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi as his replacement. "Pam was a prosecutor for nearly 20 years, tough on violent criminals, and made Florida's streets safe," he wrote. Bondi previously served on Trump's Opioid and Drug Abuse Commission and was part of his defence team during his first impeachment trial. Department of the interior - Doug Burgum Burgum, the former governor of North Dakota, leads the Department of the Interior, which is responsible for the management and conservation of federal lands and natural resources. A software entrepreneur who sold his small company to Microsoft in 2001, Burgum briefly ran in the 2024 Republican primary before dropping out, endorsing Trump and quickly impressing him with his low-drama persona and sizeable wealth. Health and human services - Robert F Kennedy Jr RFK Jr, as he is known, is an environmental lawyer, vaccine sceptic and the nephew of former President John F Kennedy. He recently added leading the Department of Health and Human Services to his resume. Despite having no medical qualifications, Kennedy, 70, now has broad remit over US federal health agencies - including those that oversee approval of vaccines and pharmaceuticals. Kennedy has endorsed a number of health claims that are not backed by scientific evidence, including many on vaccines, which have concerned many medical experts. Food and Drug Administration - Dr Marty Makary Trump has nominated Makary to lead the Food and Drug Administration, the organisation responsible for the safety of prescription drugs and vaccines . Trump announced in his nomination that Dr Makary would be ideal to "course-correct and refocus the Agency". The Johns Hopkins University professor is an author, surgeon and trained cancer specialist. He spoke to conservative media outlets during the Covid-19 pandemic, questioning the need for masks and expressing concerns over the Covid vaccine among young children, which research showed helped prevent severe illness. Veterans' affairs - Doug Collins Former Georgia congressman Doug Collins leads the US Department of Veterans' Affairs. Collins was a Trump loyalist when he served in Congress from 2013-21 and an outspoken advocate for the president during both impeachment hearings. An Iraq war veteran who now serves as a chaplain in the US Air Force Reserve, Collins left Congress for an unsuccessful bid for the Senate in his home state of Georgia. Homeland security - Kristi Noem Former South Dakota Governor Noem is in a key role in the administration, overseeing US security, including its borders, cyber-threats, terrorism and emergency response. The agency has a $62bn (£48bn) budget and employs thousands of people. It incorporates a wide variety of agencies under its umbrella, ranging from Customs and Border Protection to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Transportation secretary - Sean Duffy The former congressman and Fox Business host leads the Department of Transportation. He is in charge of aviation, automotive, rail, transit and other transportation policies at a department with an annual budget of roughly $110bn. In the role, the secretary can expect to face a number of safety-related aviation issues, including a series of deadly plane crashes in the US in the early months of 2025. Energy secretary - Chris Wright Oil and gas industry executive Wright leads the Department of Energy, where he is expected to fulfil Trump's campaign promise to "drill, baby, drill" and maximise US energy production. Wright, the founder-CEO of Liberty Energy, has called climate activists alarmist and likened Democrats' push for renewables to Soviet-style communism. In a video posted to his LinkedIn profile last year, he said: "There is no climate crisis, and we're not in the midst of an energy transition either." Commerce secretary - Howard Lutnick Lutnick was the co-chair of Trump's transition team. Trump said Lutnick, as a member of the cabinet, would spearhead the administration's "tariff and trade agenda". The billionaire and former CEO of the investment firm Cantor Fitzgerald is overseeing 50,000 employees tasked with growing the economy and creating jobs, among other goals. Education secretary - Linda McMahon World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) co-founder and Trump transition co-chair, McMahon, was picked for education secretary. A long-time Trump ally, McMahon led the Small Business Administration during Trump's first presidency and donated millions of dollars to his presidential campaign. Trump has promised to shut down the education department - a job McMahon could be tasked with if she wins Senate confirmation. "I wholeheartedly support and agree with this mission," she said during her confirmation hearing. Treasury secretary - Scott Bessent Scott Bessent leads the Treasury Department, a post with wide oversight of tax policy, public debt, international finance and sanctions. A Wall Street financier who once worked for liberal billionaire George Soros, Bessent was an early backer of Trump's 2024 bid and brings a relatively conventional resume to the role. On the campaign trail, Bessent told voters that Trump would usher in a "new golden age with de-regulation, low-cost energy, [and] low taxes". "[He] has long been a strong advocate of the America First Agenda," Trump said about his pick. Labour secretary - Lori Chavez-DeRemer Chavez-DeRemer has been selected by Trump to lead the US Department of Labor - which oversees worker health and safety and workforce laws and administers unemployment and workers compensation. Chavez-DeRemer had been serving in the US Congress since 2023 but lost her re-election bid in Oregon in the November election, despite winning strong trade union support. Housing secretary - Scott Turner Turner, an NFL veteran and motivational speaker, leads the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (Hud), which aims to address the country's housing needs. Typically, Hud enforces laws, prevents discrimination and provides assistance to those in need, through both low-income housing and helping Americans avoid foreclosure. Turner served as the executive director of the White House Opportunity and Revitalization Council during Trump's first term. Agriculture secretary - Brooke Rollins Rollins grew up on a farm, but her most recent job was as co-founder and head of the America First Policy Institute, a think tank to promote Trump's public policy agenda. Rollins graduated from the Texas A&M University with a degree in agriculture development and later obtained her law degree from the same university. As agriculture secretary, she oversees farm subsidies, federal nutrition programmes, meat inspections and other facets of the country's agricultural industry. Outside the 15 department heads who make up the core of the cabinet, there are several other roles that are often given cabinet-rank, like the FBI director and the head of the Environment Protection Agency (EPA). Some of them require Senate approval, but others do not. Here are some of the important names: Department of Government Efficiency - Elon Musk Trump tapped close ally and billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk to lead what he has termed a Department of Government Efficiency.  It is not a cabinet-level department or agency approved by Congress, but it does include paid staff with access to various government agencies. Known as Doge - a nod to a cryptocurrency promoted by Musk - it serves in an advisory capacity to "dismantle government bureaucracy, slash excess regulations, cut wasteful expenditures and restructure federal agencies", Trump said. Musk, the world's richest man, has proven to be one of Trump's most controversial picks as he has suggested massive cuts to the federal workforce and government funding. US First Lady Melania Trump and her husband President Donald Trump have walked the black carpet at the premier of her new documentary. The BBC’s Nomia Iqbal speaks to voters in Philadelphia, where the tech billionaire campaigned for the president and even gave away a few $1m cheques. The former US president says he has no regrets over his late withdrawal in the contest against Donald Trump. Aged just 10 when his father first became president, he's now well over six feet tall, and goes to New York University. The US president spoke about his plans for the second Trump administration, as well as criticising the 'corrupt establishment'. Watch the historic moment when the 45th president is returned to power as he takes the oath of office. Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos were among those invited inside the Capitol for Donald Trump's swearing in. Thousands of people joined in on demonstrations as the United States prepares to inaugurate its new president. The outgoing US president warned against power in the hands of the wealthy, the threat of the tech industry and climate change. Trump's pick for US attorney general was pressed on claims of election fraud and pardons for January 6 rioters. Donald Trump's defence secretary nominee was asked about his stance on women in combat and his alleged excessive drinking. Harris, who Trump defeated in the 2024 election, presided over the event as required by the US Constitution. Among the allies the president-elect has chosen to join his administration are contentious figures, including among fellow Republicans. The president-elect has nominated RFK to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. The suspect used an “improvised incendiary device” to start the fire in Portland, Oregon, ahead of the US election. A week after losing the election, Kamala Harris's team are still appealing for funds. Republicans have won control of both chambers of Congress, yielding Trump limited congressional oversight for at least 2 years. The president and president-elect shook hands as part of a long-standing tradition signifying the transfer of power. Given all the things they’ve said about each other, Joe Biden and Donald Trump’s meeting could be really awkward. 'I think Putin believes that he knows how to play Trump', says Trump's former adviser John Bolton. Republicans say the legislation is necessary to stop voter fraud, but Democrats say it disenfranchises voters. The ruling says that releasing the report would cause "irreparable damage" to Trump and violate "basic notions of fairness and justice". US First Lady Melania Trump and her husband President Donald Trump have walked the black carpet at the premier of her new documentary. The former US Special Counsel faced questions about his two defunct criminal investigations into President Donald Trump. The former US Special Counsel is facing questions about his two defunct criminal investigations into President Donald Trump. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A day after her husband’s big election night win, Melania Trump took to social media to address the nation. “The majority of Americans have entrusted us with this important responsibility,” Mrs Trump said. “We will safeguard the heart of the republic – freedom,” she vowed, and urged Americans to rise above ideology for the sake of the country. It was a brief message, but suggested a shift in how the former first lady will approach the role this second time around. When Trump won his first presidency in 2016, his wife was initially absent from the White House, instead staying in New York with their young son. She appeared reticent, at times, with the traditions set out by first ladies that preceded her. But experts say that this time, Mrs Trump will likely be more deliberate with her approach to the largely undefined role of being America’s First Lady. Born Melanija Knavs, the 54-year-old Slovenian-American former fashion model eventually traded a glamorous life in the gilded walls of Manhattan’s Trump Tower for the confines of political life that came with the Oval Office, during a presidency that was often mired in controversy. Described by some as an “enigma”, Mrs Trump has preferred to be less public than her predecessors, giving fewer speeches both in the White House and on the campaign trail. “She’s been unique among modern first ladies,” said Tammy Vigil, an associate professor of communications at Boston University and author of a book on Michelle Obama and Melania Trump. “She does things the way she wants to do them, as opposed to the way she has to do them. But she fulfils the base expectations.” In recent years, she avoided the spotlight as her husband challenged several legal cases against him while he campaigned for a second term. Her absence inspired several news articles this summer asking: “Where is Melania?” Mrs Trump did appear on key occasions, like when her husband announced in late 2022 that he would be running again. She also attended the Republican National Convention in July wearing a bright red Christian Dior suit, but did not deliver a speech - another break from tradition. When she does speak, her words appear carefully chosen, offering hints to her point of view. At her husband’s Madison Square Garden rally just weeks before Election Day, she delivered short but pointed remarks in line with the Trump campaign's law and order messaging, painting New York City as a “great metropolis” in decline due to rampant crime. She also spoke after the first assassination attempt on her husband, calling for unity and labelling the perpetrator a “monster”. In a rare interview on Fox, she later accused his political opponents and the media of “fuelling a toxic atmosphere” that led to the attack. Mrs Trump declared her pro-choice stance in her recent memoir, putting her at odds with anti-abortion activists within the Republican Party - though the remarks prompted speculation due to their timing, as her husband was struggling to campaign on the issue after the overturning of Roe v Wade. Mrs Trump wrote about her modelling career, her admiration for her husband and their past political disagreements, but chose to keep details of those disputes private. She has, however, publicly stood by Trump on controversial stances like his false claim that the 2020 presidential election was stolen. "I am not the only person who questions the results," she wrote in her book. On the Capitol Riots on 6 January, 2021, she wrote that she "wasn't aware" of what was taking place because she was preoccupied with her duties. Her former press secretary, Stephanie Grisham, wrote in her own memoir that Mrs Trump refused to issue a statement condemning the violence, leading Ms Grisham to resign. Some commentators have questioned whether she enjoyed the role of first lady at all. One of her biographers, former CNN reporter Kate Bennett, maintains she did despite her early reluctance. “She liked all the accoutrements that go with being first lady and living in the White House,” Ms Bennett told People magazine in 2021. “I think she actually really enjoyed it.” In her memoir, Mrs Trump wrote that she has a “strong sense of duty to use the platform as First Lady for good”. And she said in a 1999 interview that if her then-boyfriend Trump ever ran for president, she would use former first ladies Jacqueline Kennedy and Betty Ford as role models, calling them "very traditional". Mrs Kennedy was a fashion icon who was dedicated to the preservation of the White House, while Mrs Ford was known as a trailblazer who advocated for abortion rights and women's rights. After relocating to Washington, Mrs Trump started taking on first lady duties, such as hosting luncheons and state dinners for visiting world leaders. She also focused on White House aesthetics, ordering extensive renovations and overseeing ambitious Christmas decorations (and was once secretly recorded complaining about that last task). Her clothing was the subject of media fascination and controversy, particularly after she was spotted wearing a jacket with the phrase “I really don’t care, do you?” during a trip to a migrant child detention centre in 2018. She said the jacket was a message for “the people and the left-wing media” who were criticising her. Mrs Trump came under fire again after being secretly recorded by her former friend and senior advisor. She was heard expressing her frustration at being criticised for her husband’s policy to separate migrant children from their families. She later revealed that she had been blindsided by the policy, and had told Trump privately that she did not support it. The policy was dropped by the president in June 2018 after a firestorm of controversy. Prof Vigil says one of the biggest challenges that Mrs Trump faced in her first term was her political inexperience as well as a revolving door of staff, who were equally inexperienced and at times disloyal. But Mrs Trump kept quietly busy regardless, Prof Vigil adds, advocating for issues like children’s welfare through her Be Best campaign against online bullying. She was forced to defend that campaign given her own husband's aggressive use of social media, telling CBS in 2016 that how he conducted himself online got him in trouble - and boosted his followers. She also advocated for children affected by the opioid crisis, and has since started a foundation that raises education funds for children in foster care. Many expect for that work to continue once she moves back to Washington, though it remains unclear if she will live there full-time. Speaking to Fox after her husband's second win in November, Mrs Trump said she has been busy preparing her return to the role of First Lady. "I am establishing my transition team, and also working on my office," she said, adding that this time, she knows what to expect and her aim is to be ready on day one. She has been spotted a few times at Mar-A-Lago - where much of the work on Trump's transition team is taking place - including hosting Mrs Akie Abe, widow of the late former Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, in December. Prof Vigil says the role of first lady has evolved over the years and Mrs Trump will "make choices about how active in public she wants to be". "And I think she'll do that much more intentionally." US First Lady Melania Trump and her husband President Donald Trump have walked the black carpet at the premier of her new documentary. The BBC’s Nomia Iqbal speaks to voters in Philadelphia, where the tech billionaire campaigned for the president and even gave away a few $1m cheques. The former US president says he has no regrets over his late withdrawal in the contest against Donald Trump. Aged just 10 when his father first became president, he's now well over six feet tall, and goes to New York University. The US president spoke about his plans for the second Trump administration, as well as criticising the 'corrupt establishment'. Watch the historic moment when the 45th president is returned to power as he takes the oath of office. Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos were among those invited inside the Capitol for Donald Trump's swearing in. Thousands of people joined in on demonstrations as the United States prepares to inaugurate its new president. The outgoing US president warned against power in the hands of the wealthy, the threat of the tech industry and climate change. Trump's pick for US attorney general was pressed on claims of election fraud and pardons for January 6 rioters. Donald Trump's defence secretary nominee was asked about his stance on women in combat and his alleged excessive drinking. Harris, who Trump defeated in the 2024 election, presided over the event as required by the US Constitution. Among the allies the president-elect has chosen to join his administration are contentious figures, including among fellow Republicans. The president-elect has nominated RFK to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. The suspect used an “improvised incendiary device” to start the fire in Portland, Oregon, ahead of the US election. A week after losing the election, Kamala Harris's team are still appealing for funds. Republicans have won control of both chambers of Congress, yielding Trump limited congressional oversight for at least 2 years. The president and president-elect shook hands as part of a long-standing tradition signifying the transfer of power. Given all the things they’ve said about each other, Joe Biden and Donald Trump’s meeting could be really awkward. 'I think Putin believes that he knows how to play Trump', says Trump's former adviser John Bolton. Republicans say the legislation is necessary to stop voter fraud, but Democrats say it disenfranchises voters. The ruling says that releasing the report would cause "irreparable damage" to Trump and violate "basic notions of fairness and justice". US First Lady Melania Trump and her husband President Donald Trump have walked the black carpet at the premier of her new documentary. The former US Special Counsel faced questions about his two defunct criminal investigations into President Donald Trump. The former US Special Counsel is facing questions about his two defunct criminal investigations into President Donald Trump. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
First Lady Melania Trump has threatened to sue Hunter Biden for more than $1bn after he said she was introduced to her husband by sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. Lawyers acting on behalf of the first lady, who married President Donald Trump in 2005, described his claim as "false, disparaging, defamatory and inflammatory". Biden, son of former US President Joe Biden, made the comments during an interview this month. He defended them on Thursday and did not seem willing to back down in the face of the lawsuit threat. Donald Trump was a friend of Epstein, but has said they fell out in the early 2000s because the financier poached employees from the spa in Trump's Florida golf club. A letter from the first lady's lawyers and addressed to an attorney for Hunter Biden demands he retract the claim and apologise, or face legal action for "over $1bn in damages". It says the first lady has suffered "overwhelming financial and reputational harm" because of the claim he repeated. It also accuses the youngest Biden son of having a "vast history of trading on the names of others", and repeating the claim "to draw attention to yourself". During a wide-ranging interview with filmmaker Andrew Callaghan published earlier this month, Hunter Biden claimed unreleased documents relating to Epstein would "implicate" President Trump. He said: "Epstein introduced Melania to Trump - the connections are so wide and deep." The first lady's legal letter notes the claim was partially attributed to Michael Wolff, a journalist who authored a critical biography of the president. In a recent interview with US outlet the Daily Beast, Wolff reportedly claimed that the first lady was known to an associate of Epstein and Trump when she met her now-husband. The outlet later retracted the story after receiving a letter from the first lady's attorney that challenged the contents and framing of the story. When asked during an interview on the YouTube show Channel 5 with Andrew Callaghan if he would apologise, Biden said "not going to happen". Biden said in the interview posted on Thursday that he did not think "these threats of a lawsuit add up to anything other than a designed distraction". But he noted that if the lawsuit was filed, he would be able to collect testimony from both Trumps through depositions and he was "more than happy to provide them the platform". There is no evidence the Trumps were introduced to each other by Epstein, who took his own life in prison while awaiting trial in 2019. In the first lady's legal letter, Hunter Biden is accused of relying on a since-removed article as the basis of his claims, which it describes as "false and defamatory". A message on the archived version of the Daily Beast online story reads: "After this story was published, The Beast received a letter from First Lady Melania Trump's attorney challenging the headline and framing of the article. "After reviewing the matter, the Beast has taken down the article and apologizes for any confusion or misunderstanding." Asked about the legal threat, the first lady's lawyer, Alejandro Brito, referred BBC News to a statement issued by her aide, Nick Clemens. It read: "First Lady Melania Trump's attorneys are actively ensuring immediate retractions and apologies by those who spread malicious, defamatory falsehoods." A January 2016 profile by Harper's Bazaar reported the first lady met her husband in November 1998, at a party hosted by the founder of a modelling agency. Melania Trump, 55, told the publication she declined to give him her phone number because he was "with a date". The profile said Trump had recently separated from his second wife, Marla Maples, whom he divorced in 1999. He was previously married to Ivana Trump between 1977 and 1990. The BBC has contacted Hunter Biden's attorney. The legal letter comes after weeks of pressure on the White House to release the so-called Epstein files, previously undisclosed documents relating to the criminal investigation against the convicted paedophile. Before being re-elected, Trump said he would release the records if he returned to office, but the FBI and justice department said in July that no "incriminating" client list of Epstein associates existed. Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US First Lady Melania Trump's new official portrait has been released. Shot in the White House one day after her husband was sworn in as president, the black and white photo shows her wearing a dark business suit and white shirt as she rests her hands on a reflective table in the Yellow Oval Room. The Washington Monument, which towers over the nation's capital, is seen in the background. Mrs Trump - a former fashion model herself - is familiar with having her clothing choices and poses dissected by critics. The portrait was shot by Régine Mahaux, a photographer from Belgium who has been taking photos of the Trump family for more than 20 years. She also photographed Mrs Trump's official portrait in 2017, for Trump's first term in office.  "I was really honoured to be chosen to shoot this official portrait for the second time," Ms Mahaux told the BBC on Monday. "As an artist to work with such an inspiring woman is a great privilege. She is a perfectionist and is really involved in the creative process." Here is what experts said about the image. Gwendolyn DuBois Shaw is the Faculty Director for the Department of History of Art at the University of Pennsylvania. She curated the exhibition Every Eye is Upon Me: First Ladies of the United States at The National Portrait Gallery in Washington DC. Like the official portrait from her husband's first administration, also by the Trumps' favourite photographer Régine Mahaux, this picture of Melania Trump shows her wearing business attire and posed in front of a window. While the window in the first picture was recognisable to White House aficionados as it was located in the family quarters of the executive mansion, this one sited in the Yellow Oval Room facing the Ellipse features the Washington Monument placed just off to the left behind the First Lady. The rhyming of her body with this well-known obelisk, a symbol of the power invested in the first presidency, is striking. Her pose, with fingertips placed firmly on a remarkably reflective table, seems to communicate a readiness to "get down to business" and act upon the platform afforded to the unique role of hostess and advocate for the disempowered that Americans have historically expected first ladies to inhabit. Mrs Trump is extraordinarily comfortable in front of the camera, and this probably has a lot to do with her past as a model. But I think the relationship that she has developed with Ms Mahaux over the past two decades accounts for most of that ease. This photographer is a person that she trusts to make her appear confident, composed, and classy. To be good at their jobs, models must put themselves in the hands of the photographer who is directing the shoot and trusting that the resulting pictures will serve their purpose is critical to the equation. Mrs Trump trusts Ms Mahaux to accurately communicate her message, whatever that may be. The message of this picture is that the first lady has moved from the marginal space of the family quarters to the room just above the Oval Office. She appears ready to wield more of the power that she seemed rather reluctant to embrace in her first stay at the White House. And yet, she has positioned herself firmly behind that ultra shiny table, keeping a bit of a boundary between herself and the viewer. Staying a little mysterious, a little enigmatic, and a little inscrutable. Ellie Violet Bramley is a fashion writer who says the portrait carries a heaviness that appears at odds with the traditional role of a first lady. From the suit to the stance, the new portrait feels carefully orchestrated to exude a kind of power that feels at odds with the first lady's traditional role of softening a presidency in the public's eyes – and making it feel more human. Unlike the military-inflected ensemble worn by the first lady on inauguration day, this is a look that feels more aligned with corporate power. Ditto the stance: the positioning of the hands on the table seems intended to semaphore a kind of business-like intention – it has, after all, been reported that the first lady has been "preparing intensively" for the White House this time around. Much could be read into the details. Her shirt might be undone, in contrast to the severe, buttoned-up tailoring of last week, but her shoulders are sharp and accentuated. Her wide lapels could be reminiscent of the suiting of 1980s New York, a time and place when Melania's husband cut his teeth, but the silhouette is more sculpted and modern. During Trump's first presidency, Mrs Trump was largely quiet, beyond a slogan jacket that read "I really don't care, do you?" worn to a migrant child detention centre, and her Be Best platform, which had somewhat vague aims such as promoting healthy living. This time around, her appearances have hinted at a more intentional second run. The Washington Monument stands in the background, locating her very firmly in DC and not New York or Mar-a-Lago. And gone is the soft focus, the half-smile and the parted lips from her official portrait last time she was in the White House. Gone also is the colour: this time around the portrait is black and white. Much can be read into her eyes. The mere fact that they are so directly looking at camera – and the viewer in turn – in contrast to inauguration day when she opted for a boater hat that shrouded her eyes, feels noteworthy. But while eye contact can be about approachability, here it doesn't read that way. If previous first ladies such as Michele Obama and Jill Biden made accessibility their brand, in her official portrait, Melania remains enigmatic. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Before politics, Donald Trump built a dynasty with a multimillion-dollar inheritance, a brand name and a lot of expensive real estate. Now that brand - and that name - is synonymous with the Republican Party, with various members of the Trump family now wielding influence. For his first term, daughter Ivanka and her husband Jared Kushner were White House advisers. As Trump prepares to return to 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, we take a look at where his relatives will go next. Melania Trump, who returns to the White House as First Lady for a second term, has been married to Trump since 2005. She maintained a low profile during Trump's first term in office and has made few public appearances since. In July, she made an unexpected appearance at the convention, just days after an attempt on her husband’s life. In a memoir released in October, she shared her pro-choice stance on abortion. Her position is in contrast with that of her husband who has taken credit for helping overturn Roe v Wade, upending the constitutional right to abortion. Her return to Washington was up in the air but in January she clarified she will split her time: "I will be in the White House. And you know, when I need to be in New York, I will be in New York. When I need to be in Palm Beach, I will be in Palm Beach." Barron Trump has largely stayed out of the spotlight during campaigning. In May, it was reported he would be among the delegates from the state of Florida attending the convention in July, but a day later his mother stated that he had declined the offer. He graduated from Oxbridge Academy in Palm Beach, Florida, in May and his father says he is now studying at Stern School of Business at New York University. Donald Trump Jr, the eldest of the Trump children, has taken on a larger role in the years since his father left the White House. He was prominent in the media during the selection of Trump's running-mate JD Vance who, he says, is a friend. "It's an incredible pick," he said at the Republican National Convention (RNC). "Truly a great choice." He made no secret Ohio Senator JD Vance was his first pick and he got his wish. Donald Trump Jr was previously married to Vanessa Trump, with whom he shares five children. He is now engaged to Kimberly Guilfoyle. He reportedly has accepted a job with an investment firm called 1789 Capital which opposes "excessive bureaucracy" and focuses on conservative ideas such as "deglobalization," according to its website. Like his brother, Eric Trump, the third of Trump's children, has lobbied his father about issues important to him, according to reports. He has kept a less public persona than his older brother but also maintains a leading presence in the Trump family business. Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner were arguably the most influential family members during Trump's first stint in the White House. The pair have been married since 2009 and share three children. During Trump's time in office, Ivanka made numerous appearances on behalf of her father and his administration. But Ivanka said she would not be returning to Washington, in part because her children are older this time around. "The main reason I am not going back to serve now is I know the cost, and it's a price that I'm not willing to make my kids bear," she said on podcast in January. Mr Kushner held a senior adviser role in the White House from 2017 to 2021. It is unclear exactly what his role in a second Trump administration might be, but his father, Charles Kushner, has been appointed US ambassador to France. The fourth child of the former president and the only one of Trump's children born to his second wife, Marla Maples. She has not maintained any political role in her father's campaigns or time in the White House. She has been married to Michael Boulos since 2022 and they are expecting their first child later this year. Her father-in-law, Massad Boulos, was selected by Trump to serve as senior adviser on Arab and Middle Eastern affairs. Kimberly Guilfoyle and Donald Trump Jr were together for six years and engaged since 2020. Tabloids have spotted the president's eldest son holding hands with another woman - making the current status of their relationship unclear. She was a Fox News presenter from 2006 to 2018, before leaving to become a member of a pro-Trump super PAC (political action committee). Guilfoyle has been an outspoken supporter of Trump, particularly in TV appearances, which led to her nomination as US ambassador to Greece in the second Trump administration. She was married to California Governor Gavin Newsom in the early 2000s. Married to Eric, she is the rising star of the family, particularly since she began serving as Republican National Committee co-chair earlier this year. She has two children with Eric. In July, she gave a speech at the convention and spoke warmly of her father-in-law. "Our family has faced our fair share of death threats... none of that prepares you as a daughter-in-law to watch in real time someone try to kill a person you love," she said. Her name was floated as a potential replacement for Florida Senator Marco Rubio who was nominated to be Secretary of State, but she ultimately withdrew her name from consideration. Lara said she has a big announcement to share in January, without giving further details. Kai Trump is the eldest of Trump's grandchildren and the daughter of Donald Trump Jr and his former wife Vanessa Trump. The 17-year-old is a keen golfer and spoke at the convention about what Trump is like as a grandfather. “To me, he’s just a normal grandpa. He gives us candy and soda when our parents aren’t looking,” she said. North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher makes sense of the race for the White House in his twice-weekly US Election Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. US First Lady Melania Trump and her husband President Donald Trump have walked the black carpet at the premier of her new documentary. The BBC’s Nomia Iqbal speaks to voters in Philadelphia, where the tech billionaire campaigned for the president and even gave away a few $1m cheques. The former US president says he has no regrets over his late withdrawal in the contest against Donald Trump. Aged just 10 when his father first became president, he's now well over six feet tall, and goes to New York University. The US president spoke about his plans for the second Trump administration, as well as criticising the 'corrupt establishment'. Watch the historic moment when the 45th president is returned to power as he takes the oath of office. Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos were among those invited inside the Capitol for Donald Trump's swearing in. Thousands of people joined in on demonstrations as the United States prepares to inaugurate its new president. The outgoing US president warned against power in the hands of the wealthy, the threat of the tech industry and climate change. Trump's pick for US attorney general was pressed on claims of election fraud and pardons for January 6 rioters. Donald Trump's defence secretary nominee was asked about his stance on women in combat and his alleged excessive drinking. Harris, who Trump defeated in the 2024 election, presided over the event as required by the US Constitution. Among the allies the president-elect has chosen to join his administration are contentious figures, including among fellow Republicans. The president-elect has nominated RFK to lead the Department of Health and Human Services. The suspect used an “improvised incendiary device” to start the fire in Portland, Oregon, ahead of the US election. A week after losing the election, Kamala Harris's team are still appealing for funds. Republicans have won control of both chambers of Congress, yielding Trump limited congressional oversight for at least 2 years. The president and president-elect shook hands as part of a long-standing tradition signifying the transfer of power. Given all the things they’ve said about each other, Joe Biden and Donald Trump’s meeting could be really awkward. 'I think Putin believes that he knows how to play Trump', says Trump's former adviser John Bolton. Republicans say the legislation is necessary to stop voter fraud, but Democrats say it disenfranchises voters. The ruling says that releasing the report would cause "irreparable damage" to Trump and violate "basic notions of fairness and justice". US First Lady Melania Trump and her husband President Donald Trump have walked the black carpet at the premier of her new documentary. The former US Special Counsel faced questions about his two defunct criminal investigations into President Donald Trump. The former US Special Counsel is facing questions about his two defunct criminal investigations into President Donald Trump. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has introduced a new 10% global tariff rate after the Supreme Court ruled that the majority of tariffs he introduced in 2025 were illegal. Trump argues that his import taxes have boosted US manufacturing and created jobs. But critics say they have put up prices for American consumers and have disrupted and damaged the global economy. It is thought the new 10% duty will replace the individual rates that were negotiated between the US and dozens of its trading partners - including the UK, India and EU - after the global tariffs were introduced. Tariffs are taxes on imported goods. Typically, the charge is a percentage of a good's value. For example, a 10% tariff on a $10 product would mean a $1 tax on top - taking the total cost to $11 (£8.17). The tax is paid to the government by companies bringing in the foreign products. These firms may pass some or all of the extra cost on to their customers, which in this case means American consumers and other US businesses. Companies may also decide to import fewer goods. Trump says "tariff" is his favourite word, and has for decades repeatedly hailed them as a way to boost the US economy. He argues they increase the amount of tax raised by the government, encourage consumers to buy American-made goods and boost investment in the US from foreign companies. He also wants to reduce the US trade deficit - the gap between the value of goods it buys from other countries and those it sells to them. The president argues that the US has been exploited by "cheaters" and "pillaged" by foreigners, and that tariffs correct this imbalance. Trump has used different bits of legislation to introduce taxes against individual countries and on particular goods. Many tariffs that he has announced have since been amended, delayed or scrapped altogether. Trump has also used tariffs to pursue his wider political agenda. When he first threatened new duties against China, Mexico and Canada, he said the countries had to do more to stop migrants and the illegal drug fentanyl reaching the US. In January 2026, Trump said the US would apply a 25% tariff to Iran's trading partners, after Tehran cracked down on anti-government protests. And in the same month, he threatened additional tariffs on eight European countries which opposed his plans to take over Greenland, before backing down. On 20 February, the US Supreme Court said that Trump had exceeded his authority when he used emergency powers to introduce tariffs on specific countries without approval from Congress. That ruling affected all tariffs Trump brought in under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA). That includes the first tariffs Trump announced in early 2025 which targeted Mexico, Canada and China. It also covers those announced on Trump's so-called "Liberation Day" in April 2025, when the president set out tariff rates of up to 50% for dozens countries, including Cambodia, Vietnam and Malaysia. In response to the Supreme Court ruling, Trump used different legislation - Section 122 of the 1974 Trade Act - to impose a temporary 10% tariff on all global imports. He had threatened to bring in a 15% rate, but the lower rate took effect on 24 February. It will remain in place for 150 days, at which point Trump is expected to consult Congress on any extension. Various goods are exempted, such as critical minerals, metals, pharmaceuticals and some foodstuffs including beef and oranges. The White House also confirmed that the existing tariff exemption for goods from Canada and Mexico covered by the United States-Mexico-Canada (USMCA) free trade deal would continue. An official said countries which had negotiated individual tariffs would now face the global 10% rate instead. In many cases that is less than the tariff rate previously agreed, but it is not clear whether all the terms of those trade deals still apply. US trade representative Jamieson Greer said Washington expected foreign governments to stand by their commitments. However, the EU Parliament said the deal it had secured with the US in July 2025 would remain "on hold until further notice". Writing on X, Bernd Lange, chair of the parliament's international trade committee, said "clarity and legal certainty are needed before any further steps can be taken". China, which is preparing to host Trump for trade negotiations in early April, said it was "conducting a comprehensive assessment of [the] content and impact" of the Supreme Court ruling. The Supreme Court ruling did not specify whether the US government has to refund the money which it has collected under the IEEPA tariffs - thought to be around $130bn (£96bn). Trump previously said that refunds would be a "complete mess" and "almost impossible for our Country to pay". The president and his Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent both said the issue would have to be decided by the courts, a process which could take years. Days after the ruling, the global transportation and postal company FedEx said it was suing the US government for a "full refund" of the money it paid as a result of the IEEPA tariffs. Hundreds of other firms including cosmetics company Revlon, aluminium giant Alcoa and food importers like tuna brand Bumble Bee have already filed lawsuits contesting the tariffs and are also expected to pursue refunds. The UK had already negotiated 10% tariffs with the US on most goods in June 2025. In 2024, it exported about £58bn of goods to the US - mainly cars, machinery and pharmaceuticals. Under the terms of the 2025 deal, the 10% rate applied to the first 100,000 UK vehicles exported every year - roughly the number sold in 2024. Additional cars face the standard 25% tariff. UK steel exports to the US are also subject to 25% duty, compared to the 50% rate which applies to steel and aluminium products from the rest of the world. The UK prime minister's official spokesman said the "majority" of the US-UK deal was not expected to change after the Supreme Court ruling. But he described the situation as "evolving", and said discussions between the UK and US were ongoing. The Supreme Court ruling does not apply to the tariffs which the Trump administration has put in place for particular products, wherever they are made in the world. In addition, Trump ended an exemption for imports valued at $800 (£592) or less. It means low-cost goods are no longer duty-free - a move affecting millions of packages sent every day, including those from online retailers like Shein and Temu. The companies shipping the parcels now have to pay duties based on the tariff rate which applies to the country the goods were sent from. Otherwise, for six months, they can choose to pay a fixed fee of between $80 and $200 per package. In November 2025, Trump signed an executive order exempting a range of food products from tariffs, including avocados, bananas, beef and coffee because of domestic shortages. Many firms said they would pass on the cost of tariffs to US customers, including Target, Walmart and Adidas. Some products have become more expensive - including toys, appliances and furniture as well as certain foodstuffs. The cost of some goods manufactured in the US using imported components has also gone up. But on the whole, prices have not risen by as much as some analysts had predicted. US inflation was 2.4% in the 12 months to January 2026. That was lower than the figure of 2.7% that was recorded the previous month, but was the same as the figure in April 2025, before most tariffs took effect. Trump was accused of throwing the global economy into turmoil when he announced the first tariffs of his second presidential term in early 2025. Share prices around the world fell sharply, as did the value of the dollar. Although the US currency and global financial markets have since largely recovered, the ongoing uncertainty around Trump's tariff policy has continued to destabilise international trade. In January 2026, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said the tariffs had "definitely [slowed] down global activity", and warned further trade tensions could threaten economic growth. The economic watchdog expects global growth to reach 3.3% in 2026 - an increase from its previous forecast of 3.1% - before slowing slightly to 3.2% in 2027. It also thinks global headline inflation will fall to 3.8% in 2026 and 3.4% in 2027, but predicts inflation will fall more slowly in the US than in other large economies. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. People have been urged to check car finance deals after announcement of a mis-selling redress scheme. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Stock market turmoil deepened on Friday, as China hit back at tariffs announced by US President Donald Trump, raising the likelihood of an extended trade war and damage to the global economy. All three major stock indexes in the US plunged more than 5%, with the S&P 500 dropping almost 6%, capping the worst week for the US stock market since 2020. In the UK, the FTSE 100 plunged almost 5% - its steepest fall in five years, while Asian markets also dropped and exchanges in Germany and France faced similar declines. Trump, who has vowed to remake the global trade order, dismissed concerns about the market shock, noting that the US labour market is strong. "Hang tough," he urged his followers on social media. "We can't lose." The global stock market has lost trillions in value since Trump announced sweeping new 10% import taxes on goods from every country, with products from dozens of countries, including key trading partners such as China, the European Union and Vietnam, facing far higher rates. Analysts say the moves, some of which are due to go into effect as soon as Saturday, amount to the biggest tax increase in the US since 1968. They expect the measures to lead to a contraction in trade, and have warned they could drive many countries into an economic recession. China responded to Trump on Friday by hitting US goods with import taxes of 34%, curbing exports of key minerals and adding American firms to its blacklist, describing Trump's actions as "bullying" and a violation of international trade rules. Other countries appear to be hoping they will be able to negotiate deals, despite conflicting signals from the White House about its appetite for talks. Maroš Šefčovič, the trade commissioner for the EU, which has been planning to retaliate, said on Friday that he had had a "frank" two-hour exchange with US officials, and wrote on social media the trade relationship needed a "fresh approach". "The EU's committed to meaningful negotiations, but also prepared to defend our interests," he said. "We stay in touch." Trump's moves are consistent with promises he made on the campaign trail last year. But they were more far-reaching than some analysts had expected, triggering the worst week for the stock market since 2020, when the Covid-19 pandemic led to global shutdowns and other disruption. The sell-off started with firms such as Apple and Nike, which rely heavily on suppliers in Asia. But on Friday, it moved into sectors that would typically not face the direct impact of tariffs, such as consumer staples, healthcare and utilities. "Candidly the mood is pretty sour and it should be," said Mike Dickson, head of research and quantitative strategies at Horizon Investments in the US, warning that it will take weeks to understand the impact of Trump's tariffs. "What we're really worried about right now is what we saw at 6am-ish [when China retaliated]," he said, "How much more of that is out there?" In a note to investors, JP Morgan said it now put the odds of a global economic recession this year at 60%, up from 40% previously, noting that the shock from the tariffs could drive growth in the US down by two percentage points this year. Some investors downplayed the losses, noting that they follow an astonishing run-up in the value of share prices in the US over the past few years. "These shifts in the market that we're seeing - they're violent because things go down a lot quicker than they go up," said Tim Pagliara, chief executive of Tennessee-based CapWealth. He said the White House was attempting a "big reset" in global trade but the effort was needed. "We've talked about trade imbalance my entire career," he said. "Nothing's ever happened. So something has to happen. "We are going to level the playing field on some of these relationships that have just gotten out of balance." Speaking on Friday, Jerome Powell, the head of the Federal Reserve, the US central bank, said he thought the economy remained "solid", pointing to the latest data showing strong hiring in the US in March. But he acknowledged a high degree of uncertainty. "What we've learned is that the tariffs are higher than anticipated, higher than almost all forecasters predicted," Mr Powell said, warning that growth would slow and prices were likely to rise. In New Jersey, small business owner Pat Muscaritolo, said the changes may force him to shut down his appliance shop, Jacobson Appliance, after 40 years in business.  He has been urging customers to make any necessary purchases now. "We don't know what the price is going to be at the end of the month," he said, though he is bracing for prices on items such as refrigerators that could be 30% or even 40% higher. On the markets, housing-related firms were a bright spot, perhaps rallying on bets that the turmoil could lead to lower interest rates for mortgages and help the US housing market. Shares in Nike, and other clothing retailers, which had been hammered on Thursday, also clawed back some ground on Friday, buoyed by hopes of a deal after Trump said he had a "very productive call" with the leader of Vietnam. Cambodia also sent a letter offering to reduce tariffs and asking the US to negotiate. But other parts of the market remained bleak. Shares in Apple, which relies heavily on China for manufacturing, fell more than 7% on Friday. The iPhone maker's market value has dropped roughly 15% since Wednesday. As the rout continued, even some White House allies started to criticise the measures. On a podcast devoted to tariffs, Republican Senator Ted Cruz of Texas said Trump's moves could lead to benefits for the US, while warning of "enormous risks". "If we're in a scenario 30 days from now, 60 days from now, 90 days from now, with massive American tariffs, and massive tariffs on American goods in every other country on earth, that is a terrible outcome," he said. In the Falkland Islands, an archipelago in the South Atlantic Ocean, Janet Robertson, the general manager of Consolidated Fishing Limited, was wondering how a new 42% tax on its exports to the US would hit its sales of toothfish. "At the moment, we're not making any dramatic decisions," she said. But, she added, fishing is "by far the most important industry in the Falklands". "The sales of toothfish into the States are a big part of that," she said. "We're wondering where it will all end up." Reporting contributed by Tom Espiner, Nada Tawfik, Cai Pigliucci and the BBC's World Service. Reports it plans the biggest listing ever sent the shares of firms in its orbit soaring in US trade on Wednesday. Crude rose back above $100 a barrel as the US and Iran clashed over bringing the conflict to an end. The US repeated claims it is in discussions with Iran while Shell warned oil shortages will hit Europe. Energy prices fall and stock markets rebound after the US president says "very good and productive" talks have been held. Finance ministers and the IEA discussed options for stabilising oil prices which surpassed $100. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The UK exported nearly £60bn worth of goods to the US last year, making it one of the most important markets for thousands of British businesses. After President Donald Trump announced a 10% tariff on nearly all UK products, we spoke to businesses from some of Britain's biggest exporters to find out what it could mean for them. The UK food and drink industry exports a couple of billion pounds worth of goods to the US every year, satisfying Americans's taste for specialist products like smoked salmon, Scotch whisky and artisan cheeses. Adam Sopher, co-founder and chief executive at Joe & Seph's, the London-based luxury popcorn-maker, says the mere spectre of tariffs had already been affecting the business. US retailers usually place their orders for Christmas early in the year, but it's had far fewer orders than normal as retailers wait to see what happens. Joe & Seph's made £8m in sales last year of which 2%-3% came from the US. "So it is not huge," says Mr Sopher. "But the US is the biggest popcorn market in the world so we had planned that a lot of our growth would come from there." As a consequence, he says, it's now planning to focus on growing its exports to the Middle East and Asia. However, the 10% tariff was not as bad as he was expecting and US importers aready have to pay a 5.8% tariff on Joe & Seph's goods when they reach American ports. "So essentially what's happened is we're going to go from 5.8% to 10% as opposed to zero to 10%," says Mr Sopher. It is also lower than the new US tariffs levied on other countries, such as the 20% tax on the European Union. "Ironically it could be a good thing," he says. "These retailers who would have sourced from Europe might now say 'actually we'll buy more from the UK." For something not visible to the naked eye, organic chemicals are a huge US export for the UK, totalling close to £3bn last year. They are used across a massive range of industries from food to make-up to engines and into agriculture. Rather than feeling fearful about the US tariff, Robinsons Brothers reckons it may help the West Bromwich-based organic chemicals firm wrestle back American customers from cheaper overseas rivals. Chief executive Adrian Hanrahan says: "We supplied a lot more to the US but China and India knocked us out of that because of very low pricing." Under Trump's new regime, China's imports face a 34% tariff while India's products will be taxed at 27%. Robinsons Brothers chemicals are already taxed at 6% when they reach the US Mr Hanrahan says he is still trying to nail down whether the new 10% US tariff on UK goods means Robinsons Brothers' American customers will be paying an additional 4% or a total 16%. "Either way, it is a lot less than China or India will see going into the US," he says. "So I am really hoping and seeing an opportunity for us here in one area." He says that since January, the company has been receiving more enquiries from the US, including two customers Robinsons Brothers lost five years ago "at great expense". At the moment, Robinsons Brothers derives between 1.5% and 2% of total sales - which reached £24m last year - from America. This "doesn't seem a lot" says Mr Hanrahan but they are high margin products. There are, of course, concerns that rival countries may have to dump products once destined for the US on other markets, such as the UK which, in turn, could drive down domestic prices. Mr Hanrahan says: "I am hoping that the UK government is preparing for that and putting something in place to mitigate any form of product dumping in the UK and in the EU." UK exports to the US linked to aircraft totalled £2.2bn in 2024, official figures show. DPS Designs contributes a small - but important part - to that industry. The Forest of Dean-based firm makes metal moulds that are used to create plastic sections of airplane seats. The US is DPS's biggest growth market. Around £150,000 worth of sales come directly from the US out of a total £3m. The company's managing director of engineering, Sebastian Down, says the firm will negotiate with its customers "to see if we can share in the pain" of the new 10% tariffs - once he deciphers what they apply to. "The amount of detail is paper-thin," he said. DPS Designs has already had to grapple with the ambiguous language used by the White House around tariffs, after Trump announced 25% trade tariffs on steel and aluminium imports to the US. The company uses aluminium to make its moulds. "There was no-one you could speak to so it relied on me going onto the US department of whatever website, trying to look at lots of detail that basically didn't exist," he says. Ultimately, the aluminium tariff does not apply to his business. But the new 10% tariff criteria isn't clear either. Does it, for example, apply to parts that make up a product or only to the finished article itself? "It is as clear as mud," says Mr Down. The US market for British-made cars is of enormous consequence for the UK economy. Last year, the UK exported £9bn worth to America. The sector was already reeling from Trump's previously announced 25% US tariff on cars and light vehicles. Mike Hawes, chief executive of the Society of Motor Manufacturers & Traders, says: "These tariff costs cannot be absorbed by manufacturers, thus hitting US consumers who may face additional costs and a reduced choice of iconic British brands." With Trump's announcement on Wednesday of 10% US taxes on nearly all UK imports, the net will now widen to include the likes of electric motorcycle-maker Maeving. Seb Inglis-Jones, co-founder and co-chief executive of the Coventry company, says that sales from the US are "ever evolving". Last month, for example, 68% of sales came from America though typically, the US makes up about 40% of its £6m annual turnover. Mr Inglis-Jones says that the US has helped counterbalance a less-than-optimistic economic outlook in Maeving's other key markets such as the UK, France and Germany. "In the US, there's just more disposable income and so with a slightly more discretionary purchase like ours, a slightly more expensive British built electric motorcycle, Americans are just way more able to spend that money." He says that Maeving recently raised prices in the US, not as a pre-emptive move before tariffs but because the cost of doing business in the States had increased. Will the company now lift prices again? "We haven't got that far," says Mr Inglis-Jones. "I think we care more about, as a young EV [electric vehicle] company, about the growth and making sure the price is right for the US customer. "If we can't stomach it, we will have to put the prices up again." Many businesses have said they will have to pass higher wage costs onto customers. Higher energy prices could lead to higher borrowing costs for homeowners, the Bank warns. Increases in the National Minimum Wage and National Living Wage mean 2.7 million workers will be paid more from April. A string of bill increases have taken effect but minimum wage and benefit rises will help some to pay them. The conflict in the Middle East has increased pressure on the cost of petrol, household energy bills and even food. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The sweeping new tariffs announced by President Donald Trump have triggered ructions across financial markets, with global share prices seeing hefty falls. It's the latest example of big shifts in stock markets making the news, whether they are booms or falls. As companies grow, they may issue shares. Many of the largest companies in the UK have shares which are bought and sold on the London Stock Exchange. Their collective performance is often quoted amid a blizzard of numbers that may feel confusing and irrelevant. Rarely does anyone mention the FTSE 100 during a coffee with friends. But there are good reasons why this performance affects your life and finances. Many people's initial reaction to "the markets" is that they are not directly affected, because they do not invest money. Yet there are millions of people with a pension - either private or through work - who will see their savings (in what is known as a defined contribution pension) invested by pension schemes. The value of their savings pot is influenced by the performance of these investments. Pension savers mostly let experts choose where to invest this money to help it grow. Widespread falls in share prices are likely to be bad news for pension savers. Hundreds of billions of pounds are held in defined contribution pensions at the moment. So big rises or falls can affect your pension, but the advice is to remember that pension savings, like any investments, are usually a long-term bet. Experts say that investors have always had to ride economic shocks. Investments, by definition, require a long-term outlook and strategy. So, they are urging people not to panic in such circumstances or make knee-jerk decisions. Some people have a pension which promises a specific value, depending on their salary. Others have no pension at all. Millions of people have been automatically enrolled into a pension and may have not really noticed. This scheme sees employers divert wages into a pension and contribute some money themselves. The government adds a little in tax relief. In every case, the value of these pension savings is affected by investment performance. So "the markets" matter - maybe not as much as everyday wages, but for future pensions. Timing is more critical for those at retirement age, as this may be when a retiree uses their pension pot to buy a retirement income, or annuity. The bigger the pot, the more income they will get in retirement. As you approach retirement age, pension pots tend to be moved to less risky investments, such as government bonds. When stock markets fall, these bonds can do better. Anyone who has a pension pot invested and is taking an income from it will again see their investment go up and down with the stock markets. That could mean getting less than you expected if you cash in too much after stock markets have fallen, making it important to plan how to make up any of this shortfall, experts say. If share prices fall for an extended period then that could have an effect on jobs. That's because investors in the company expect a return on that investment. When it falls for a while, then they would expect the business to address issues, for example by cutting costs, and therefore jobs. There is a huge element of the unknown here though. Companies have to consider lots of factors when making decisions on investment and employment. All eyes will be on lenders and the Bank of England for their views on mortgage and interest rates. The Bank cutting rates would make some kinds of mortgages cheaper, although cash savers would probably get a lower return on cash savings. Conversely, an increase would make borrowing more expensive, but bring better returns for savers. Much of this will depend on what happens to prices, charted by the rate of inflation. As expectations increase that UK growth will be hit by trade disruption here and abroad, financial markets are actually bracing for more rate cuts from the Bank of England - potentially three more cuts this year. This is speculative and subject to change but these shifts in markets could bring lower rates for fixed-rate mortgage deals. At the moment, we just don't know. When we see big shifts in the stock markets there can also be fluctuations in the value of currencies and exchange rates. As a result, prices could go up, but could also go down. The value of the pound against the dollar dictates the cost to UK businesses importing goods and raw materials from abroad. If import costs go up or down this could be passed on in prices to consumers. Of course all of this depends on what happens with tariffs themselves. For more on how this could affect you, read here. In purely investment terms, lower share prices can offer an opportunity to buy, in the hope that over the long term, they recover and rise. Many people will do this initially through a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (Isa). Experts and regulators are at pains to point out that investments can go down as well as up, and urge people not to put everything into one investment, but to diversify. Some people invest money in what are known as tracker funds. These go up and down in line with the performance of a certain index, such as the FTSE 100. So if the index falls, so does the value of their investments and vice versa. One advantage of these funds is that they often cost relatively little to sign up to. Clarification 19 December: This article was amended to provide more context around how companies issue shares. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The order does not affect generic medicines, the most commonly used in the US. US tariffs stand at the highest rate in decades. But what has the impact been? Consumers will be able to cancel unwanted subscriptions 'at the click of a button', the government said. Live Well North East holds fitness classes for parents which cost £4 but offers free childcare. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump announced sweeping tariffs on goods from countries across the world, on what he called "Liberation Day". He says the move will make America wealthy again, but economists warn that prices could rise for Americans and fears of a global trade war have grown. Tariffs are taxes on goods from other countries. Companies bringing the goods into the country pay the amount, typically a percentage of the goods' value, to the government. Trump announced a 10% "baseline" tariff on imports to the US. This is what the UK will face. But 60 countries will be hit with higher rates of up to 50%, including Cambodia, Vietnam, Malaysia and Bangladesh. Countries in the European Union face a 20% tariff. The tariffs are set to take effect in days. Trump also confirmed previously announced tariffs on specific goods, including 25% on steel, aluminium and foreign-made cars. Since the 1980s, Trump has strongly argued that the taxes can boost the US economy. He believes they will encourage US consumers to buy more American goods, and increase the amount of tax raised. Trump also wants to reduce the gap between the value of US goods imported and exported. The White House said other countries were taking advantage of the US by imposing their own high tariffs and other trade barriers. "For decades, our country has been looted, pillaged, raped and plundered by nations near and far, both friend and foe alike," the US president said. However, Trump is taking an enormous risk upon which he is staking his presidency, our North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher writes. If successful, the move could reshape the global economic order. Trump promises that it will rebuild American manufacturing and make the country more self-reliant. But it risks alienating allies and economists warn it could raise prices and threaten a global recession. A messy global trade war looks inevitable, suggests the BBC's economics editor Faisal Islam. Trump's decision to take tariff revenues to a level beyond those seen during the 1930s will mean huge changes to world trade patterns, he says. Economists say many companies are likely to pass the increased cost of imported goods onto their customers. They could also reduce imports, meaning fewer products are available - putting further pressure on prices. To raise the revenue Trump is hoping for, US consumers are going to have to swallow rises and keep on buying items made in other countries in similar quantities, says the BBC's deputy economics editor Dharshini David. And as she points out, history shows the frontline casualties tend to be consumers, due to reduced choice and higher prices. Cars, lumber used to build houses, beer, whisky and tequila, and avocados are among the goods that could become more expensive. Global stockmarkets fell and a series of world leaders condemned the measures. European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen said "the consequences will be dire for millions of people around the globe". EU countries are finalising a response to the 25% steel and aluminium tariffs and could announce further measures. The commission  has promised to protect European businesses, including Germany's car industry, Italy's luxury goods and France's wine producers. China has promised "resolute countermeasures", which are likely to hurt US companies trying to sell into the huge Chinese market. However, Trump's tariffs may also benefit China by allowing President Xi Jinping to portray his country as a champion of free trade, the BBC's China correspondent Stephen McDonell says. UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer acknowledged the economy will be hurt by the latest tariffs but promised to react with "cool and calm heads". Business Secretary Jonathan Reynolds told MPs the government would look at how retaliatory tariff measures against US products could affect British firms. Canada's Prime Minister Mark Carney said the country will retaliate against US tariffs, "with purpose and with force", to protect workers and strength the economy. On Thursday, he announced a 25% levy on all vehicles imported from the US that are not compliant with a current North American free trade deal. The UK faces a 10% tariff on goods heading to the US but there's lots of uncertainty about what it could mean for the UK itself: Once tariffs are in place, the value of the dollar could strengthen. That might push up import costs for UK firms, which could mean higher prices for consumers. But some economists say prices might actually drop at first. That's because firms that usually sell to the US might start sending their goods to countries like the UK instead – possibly leading to a surge of cheaper goods here. Higher prices might lead workers to ask for bigger pay rises. If UK companies see their profits squeezed, job cuts could follow. Rates are currently at 4.5%, and economists had expected two cuts this year. But if inflation rises because of higher prices, rates might stay higher for longer. The chance of the US economy heading into a recession rose to 50% after Trump's announcement, according to former International Monetary Fund chief economist  Ken Rogoff. Trump has previously refused to rule out the possibility of a recession. There are worries that tariffs could affect US consumer spending - a massive part of the global economy. In Asia, tariffs will "break the business models of thousands of companies, factories, and possibly entire nations", says our economics editor Faisal Islam. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has threatened that "all hell would rain down on" Iran if it did not make a deal, an ultimatum that Tehran has rejected. Senior Iranian military officer, Gen Ali Abdollahi Aliabadi, echoed Trump's rhetoric, saying "the gates of hell will open for you". On Saturday Iran fired more missiles at the Gulf States, Iraq and Israel, with falling debris from intercepted missiles causing damage. Since then, more strikes have been reported in Israel, Bahrain, Kuwait and the UAE overnight. The threats from the US and Iran came as both searched for a missing American crew member after a US F-15 fighter jet was shot down over Iran on Friday. The pilot was rescued, US media says. Iranian state media reported that at least four people were killed in a US-Israeli airstrike in the same region being searched for the missing US weapon systems officer. Missile strikes hit telecommunications towers in the city of Dehdasht, Tasnim news agency, which is linked to the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, reported. Unverified videos on social media show hundreds of people heading to a mountainous area in south-western Iran to search for the missing American. Iranian officials have been urging citizens to help find the missing crew member "alive" and are offering bounties for their capture. A US A-10 Warthog aircraft that was part of an initial search-and-rescue mission for the downed jet was also shot and damaged, but its pilot was rescued after they ejected over the Gulf. Also on Saturday, Trump reiterated his threat that he would resume attacks on Iranian energy plants after a 10 day pause for Tehran to "make a deal". On Truth Social he said "all Hell will reign down on them" if Iran failed to do so, or to reopen the Strait of Hormuz, within 48 hours. Iran waved off the threats and rejected Trump's demand. Gen Aliabadi, of Iran's central military command, said Trump's threat was a "helpless, nervous, unbalanced and stupid action". Ebrahim Zolfaghari, a spokesperson for Khatam al-Anbiya Central Headquarters, added: "If hostility escalates, the entire region will turn into hell for you; the illusion of defeating the Islamic Republic of Iran will become a quagmire into which you will sink." The US and Israel continued their bombardment of Iranian military, energy and other industrial sites on Saturday. Kuwait said an Iranian drone attack knocked out two power generation stations and hit water desalination plants. Earlier attacks caused significant damage to a government office complex and a fire at the Kuwaiti oil ministry. Meanwhile Israel said it had intercepted missiles launched from Iran. On Saturday Trump shared a video on his Truth Social platform which he said showed a "massive strike" on the capital Tehran. However, the video appeared to be 24 hours old. Trump claimed in his post that "many of Iran's Military Leaders, who have led them poorly and unwisely, are terminated, along with much else", following the strike. There has been no response from Tehran, and no further details from the US. A major petrochemical hub in south-western Iran was struck, state media reported. Five people were killed and 170 were injured in the attack on the Mahshahr facility, it reported. Iran also said the area around its Bushehr nuclear power plant had been attacked for the fourth time during the war. One of the plant's employees was killed in the attack, Iran's Atomic Energy Organisation said. It blamed the US and Israel for the attack, but neither country has confirmed carrying it out. The International Atomic Energy Agency - the UN's nuclear watchdog - said no increase in radiation levels has been reported. Iran's nuclear programme has long been a point of contention, leading to extensive international sanctions. The US-Israeli war with Iran began on 28 February, two days after a third round of indirect US-Iran nuclear talks in Geneva. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A former US marine tells the BBC the priority of any recovery team would be to look for signs of life. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
For months, two neighbours, Democrat Gareth Fenley and conservative John Miller, have been united in the same daily mission. Each morning the two get into their cars and drive several miles down the farm-lined roads of their small Georgia town to an empty one-million square-foot gray warehouse. On arrival, they search meticulously for signs of construction, breathing a sigh of relief each time the massive property appears untouched. The sprawling industrial warehouse, which the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) bought in February, is part of a $38.3bn (£29bn) plan to open up dozens of immigration detention centres across the US. Those plans have faced fierce opposition, not just in Democratic communities, but in conservative towns like Social Circle, which overwhelmingly supported Donald Trump in the last election - including his campaign promise to deport millions of undocumented immigrants. "People have different reasons for aligning with the exact same message," Fenley said. "That message is: 'Detention centre, not welcome here.'" Many who support the president's immigration policies are concerned the facility would starve the small town of critical resources by tripling its population, turning a place once known for its quaint Blue Willow Inn buffet restaurant into a prison town. In March, those concerns led City Manager Eric Taylor to shut off the water in the warehouse, a move that made this one-stoplight town the unlikely face of resistance to the administration's plans. "If you open up that water meter, it gives them full access to the entire supply of the whole city," Taylor told the BBC. "I can't let that happen without knowing what the ultimate impact is going to be." Now those plans for a 10,000-person detention centre appear to be on hold. The department also signalled that it is pausing plans to buy more warehouses like the one in Social Circle - though the fate of facilities it already has spent millions on remains unclear. DHS did not directly respond to a comment from the BBC about Social Circle's facility. "As with any transition, we are reviewing agency policies and proposals," a statement from the department said. DHS cancelled a scheduled meeting about the Social Circle warehouse because it was planning a "department review of processes" under new leadership, Taylor said. Residents are cautiously optimistic. "We're anxious to see what happens out of this review. They have already pulled the trigger on it. They have already bought the building, so there's going to be some effects no matter what's done or not done," Miller said. "We're still whispering up the chain as much as we can to make sure that if they are indeed reviewing it, we can give input." In the centre of Social Circle is a replica of a well, a nod to the origins of the town, which was established in 1832. According to a plaque, a group of men sitting around a well enjoying "their usual drink" invited a passing stranger to join them. "This is surely a social circle," the stranger replied. Nearly 200 years later, Social Circle's wells are at the heart of residents' fight against ICE. They say the town's water system - which serves 5,000 people - has had problems for decades, and the ICE facility would require much more than the fragile system could provide. Taylor, the city manager, said the town has a permit to pull only one million gallons of water each day from the Alcovy River, south of the town, and during the summer, the town uses about 800,000 gallons at least. ICE has said the facility on its own will require one million gallons a day. Taylor told the agency as soon as an application for water service was filed that he was not going to turn it on, he said. "I told them at that time that there was a lock on the water meter, and it was there until we had a better understanding of what the impact was going to be on our water." Miller, whose 50-acre grassy horse farm sits just across the road from the Social Circle warehouse, said officials had not done due diligence on selected locations. "It's the same story over and over," he said. "Communities weren't informed. They weren't consulted." "I understand the why, but I just don't understand how they're handling it." Miller said federal officials have floated several solutions, including either digging a well on the warehouse property or trucking in a million gallons of water a day. But the father of seven said drilling new wells could take away from the well he uses to nourish his horses, chickens, barn cats and dogs. Bringing in gallons of water on Social Circle's two-lane roads poses problems too. "That's six or seven trucks every hour, 24 hours a day," Miller said. DHS did not directly respond to a list of questions from the BBC inquiring about how it would address the water supply. Taylor also worries about the town's old sewage systems, established in 1962 and in need of replacement for 20 years, he said. "Where's the sewage supposed to go?" he asked. "We don't have the capacity to support a million gallons of sewer coming off that site." Residents in Social Circle have been waging their battle against the ICE facility ever since they found out, in a Washington Post report last December, that the warehouse was one of 23 sites earmarked to become detention centres. They quickly appealed to the government and their federal representatives, arguing they did not have resources for the facility - but ICE still purchased it in February for nearly $130m - more than four times its initial estimated worth. Since then, Miller, Fenley and others have led the charge to slow the project, holding protests and meetings with hundreds of concerned residents. Georgia's Democratic Senator Raphael Warnock visited the facility, and his office participated in a briefing with ICE officials, but "many questions remain unanswered", a spokesperson said. Other communities who have been tapped for similar projects also have fought back. In Michigan last week, the state sued to block DHS from converting a warehouse into an ICE facility in Romulus, arguing it was too close to residential neighbourhoods and schools and posed a flooding risk. New Jersey and Maryland also sued to halt ICE projects, while residents in Merrimack, New Hampshire, successfully lobbied elected officials to stop a facility in town. For some Social Circle residents, their opposition is not only a question of resources, but of human rights. Fenley said she and other Democrats in town were concerned about having people "warehoused in a place that was not built for human habitation". She worries about reports of people being abused in detention centres. At least 13 immigrants died in ICE custody from January 2026 through early March, according to ICE, while civil rights groups have said immigrants are being subjected to unsafe conditions such as a lack of food, overcrowding and medical neglect. Others raised alarms not only for those inside the facility, but the community around it. "We have one high school, one zip code, one grocery store, one stoplight. And we are going to triple the size of our town," said Valerie Walthart, who works on a veterinary farm down the road from Miller. "We're going to be overwhelmed." Walthart added that as a mother, she was concerned about safety, with a detention facility perched just a five-minute drive from the local elementary school. "It's unnerving," Joy Coker, a mother of three in the area, said of the warehouse's location. Social Circle's Republican Representative Mike Collins also publicly opposed the ICE project. "Although I am aligned with the mission of ICE to detain and deport the criminal illegal aliens who have flooded across our border due to Joe Biden's reckless policies, I agree with the community that Social Circle does not have the sufficient resources that this facility would require," he wrote. Rick Cook, a resident of neighbouring Monroe, said he wasn't in favour of the facility, but believed the US had to clamp down on illegal immigration. He said he and others in his Social Circle church hoped to provide religious counseling to immigrants held in the facility. "It's going to be what it's going to be, and we're going to try to find the ways to make the best with whatever happens," he said. To Steven Williford, the owner of a cattle farm in Social Circle who voted for Trump, ICE is a "necessary evil". But he couldn't believe the news when he learned the detention centre was coming to his hometown. "I just thought it was crazy to put something like that in this community, with no forethought, no prior authorisation, not even asking the community," he said. "I'm all for doing what's best for the country, but is it best for this community?" he added. "That's the question." Miller said he understood why some would be confused by the Republican town's reaction. He said detention facilities were necessary to detain people so they could be guaranteed due process. "You can't say that it's something that's needed and then not be somewhat willing to allow a facility to be there," he said. But, he said, realistically, no community wants such a facility tarnishing the reputation of their town. "I miss the days we were known for the Blue Willow Inn," he said, referencing the famous buffet restaurant that closed during Covid, once visited by celebrities including actress Helen Mirren. "Now," he said, "we're going to be known as Georgia's greatest little detention centre." Some residents had been hoping that a change in federal leadership would put the warehouse plans on pause. Trump fired his Homeland Secretary Kristi Noem at the beginning of March, after backlash for the administration's immigration crackdown in Minneapolis earlier this year, when federal agents shot dead two US citizens. The president nominated Senator Markwayne Mullin to take her place, which was followed by DHS signalling it may be rethinking its plans. In its statement to the BBC, DHS referenced remarks from Mullin's confirmation hearing: "We got to protect the homeland and we're going to do that, but obviously we want to work with community leaders," he said in March. "We want to be good partners." Social Circle's facility was originally slated to open in April, but work appears to have stalled. The agency has yet to award a contract for the warehouse or begin the massive construction needed to convert the bare warehouse into a sprawling court facility, complete with holding areas, gyms and recreational spaces, court facilities, cafeterias and even a gun range. Residents have been thrilled about the potential pause, including Walthart, who said the decision gives locals "a little time to breathe, since we wake up nearly every day wondering if today will be the day the trucks start rolling in". "We can enjoy our small town life," she said, "for at least a little while longer, we hope." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump is seeking $152m (£115m) to reopen the infamous Alcatraz prison as part of his proposed budget for the 2027 fiscal year. Located near San Francisco's Golden Gate Bridge, the site, also known as The Rock, was once regarded as one of America's most notorious prisons, but has served as a tourist attraction in recent years. The budget request is seeking money "to rebuild Alcatraz as a state-of-the-art secure prison facility", with funds covering the first year of costs. The plan has been met with scepticism by a number of politicians in California, with questions raised about the final cost of the project and the challenges of running Alcatraz as an active prison. The maximum security facility was closed in 1963. As a tourist site, it is currently run by the National Park Service. Former speaker for the US House of Representatives, Nancy Pelosi, said the budget proposal from the Trump administration was "absurd on its face and should be rejected outright". "Rebuilding Alcatraz into a modern prison is a stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars and an insult to the intelligence of the American people." The request will need to be approved by the US Congress. Previous criticism of Trump's plan has pointed to the lack of running water and sewage on the island, and the fact all supplies are required to be brought in by boat. By the time Alcatraz closed, it was three times more expensive to operate than any other federal prison, according to the US Bureau of Prisons. Pelosi also raised a concern echoed by other San Francisco politicians, that turning Alcatraz back into a functioning prison would mean the loss of an iconic landmark. According to the National Park Service, the facility currently brings in $60m (£45m) in revenue as an attraction. Money being sought to reopen the prison as an active facility is part of a $1.7bn (£1.3bn) investment into the Bureau of Prisons. Announcing his plans on Truth Social last year, Trump said was directing "the Bureau of Prisons, together with the Department of Justice, FBI, and Homeland Security, to reopen a substantially enlarged and rebuilt ALCATRAZ". The prison would "house America's most ruthless and violent offenders". Alcatraz was originally a naval defence fort, before being converted first to a military prison and then to a federal prison in the 1930s after being taken over by the Department of Justice. Some of its most notable inmates have included notorious gangsters Al Capone, Mickey Cohen and George "Machine Gun" Kelly. Alcatraz has served as a location in a number of films, notably 1962's Birdman of Alcatraz, starring Burt Lancaster, 1979's Escape from Alcatraz, starring Clint Eastwood, and 1996 film The Rock, starring Sean Connery and Nicolas Cage. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Cuba has begun releasing prisoners after saying it would free 2,010 as a "humanitarian and sovereign gesture" while facing continued pressure from the US. More than 20 inmates emerged from La Lima prison in eastern Havana, crying and hugging relatives who had been waiting for them all morning, AFP reported. Those freed will include foreign nationals, young people, women and those aged over 60, a statement from the Cuban embassy in the US said on Thursday. Since returning to the White House, US President Donald Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's Communist leadership and has blocked oil shipments to the island, causing severe fuel shortages and widespread blackouts. Last week, a Russian-owned tanker carrying an estimated 730,000 barrels of crude oil became the first to dock in one of Cuba's ports since early January - something Trump said he had "no problem" with. Cuba holds hundreds of political prisoners behind bars, according to Human Rights Watch, with government critics subject to harassment and criminal prosecution. Eligibility for the release was based on "a careful analysis" of offences, along with "their good conduct while in prison, the fact that they had served a significant portion of their sentences, and their state of health", the embassy said. It said the release was taking place "in the context of the religious celebrations of Holy Week, which is a customary practice in our criminal justice system". Among the first to be let go from La Lima was Albis Gainza, a 46-year-old who had served half a six-year sentence for robbery, AFP reported. Cuban opposition outlet 14ymedio reported that 41 prisoners had been released from the Toledo 2 Forced Labor Prison in south-west Havana, citing the president of the Spanish-based human rights group Prisoner Defenders. Six common criminals were freed from El Típico prison in the eastern city of Las Tunas, along with "dozens more" of prisoners from nearby forced labour centres, it reported. It is the second time this year that Cuba has announced a prisoner release. In March, 51 prisoners were set free after talks with the Vatican. In 2025, Cuba released 553 people in a deal brokered by the Vatican and the US. Trump's rhetoric concerning Latin America has pivoted focus towards Cuba since the US seized Venezuela's former President, Nicolás Maduro, in a raid on Caracas in January. Venezuela's interim government has also released political prisoners since - a key US demand - though a prisoner rights group says only a third of those promised had been let go. Venezuela had been providing Cuba with oil under highly preferential terms, something the US stopped while threatening tariffs on products from nations found to be sending oil to the Caribbean island - exacerbating an existing energy crisis. Cuba's Communist government, led by President Miguel Díaz-Canel, has been in talks with the Trump administration to try to find an agreement to end the impasse. But both sides have publicly set out a number of political and economic red lines that would make finding common ground hard. Trump has repeatedly suggested that the US could "take" Cuba by force and install a friendlier regime. Last week, the World Health Organization warned that severe fuel shortages meant that Cuban hospitals were struggling to maintain emergency and intensive care services. The island has also suffered from rolling blackouts that have left millions in darkness and seen rare shows of public dissent. Russia said on Thursday that it would send a second oil tanker, laden with enough oil to keep Cuba's economy going for a few weeks. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Eight people from different African countries have been deported to Uganda from the United States, the first such transfer under a migration deal signed last year. The group arrived on Wednesday after a US judge approved their cases, Uganda's foreign ministry said. The ministry said in a statement that its deal with the US designated Uganda as a safe third country for migrants who cannot return to their countries, for reasons such as persecution. The Uganda Law Society has condemned the deportations, saying the individuals had effectively been dumped in the country "through an undignified, harrowing and dehumanising process". The organisation called the process illegal and said it would challenge it in court. The BBC has asked the US Department of Homeland Security for comment. US President Donald Trump's administration has deported dozens of people to third countries since coming into power last January - part of its hard-line approach towards immigration. Human rights campaigners have condemned the policy, with some questioning its legality. Uganda's foreign ministry said it could not give many details about the deportees for privacy reasons, but said: "Uganda continues to uphold its longstanding commitment to providing sanctuary to persons in need and assuring they are treated with dignity." It said they were neither Ugandan nor US citizens but were "of African origin who may not be granted asylum in the USA and are reluctant to or may have concerns about returning to their country of origin". The BBC's US partner CBS News reports that Uganda agreed to accept deported migrants as long as they did not have criminal histories. According to the US, many of those transferred to other third countries have been convicted criminals. Since the start of his second term, Trump has embarked on sweeping efforts to remove undocumented migrants - a key election promise that drew mass support during this campaign. Uganda is among several African countries which, as a third country, have accepted deportees from the US. These include Eswatini, Ghana and South Sudan. Additional reporting by Richard Kagoe Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The White House is asking Congress to boost the US defence budget to $1.5tn (£1.1tn), a sweeping rise that would mark the largest expansion in military spending since World War Two. It includes funding for the Trump administration's proposed Golden Dome missile defence system, as well as a boost in domestic production of naval vessels, including new Trump-class battleships. The administration said it would pair the proposed increase with a call for cuts across domestic agencies, including eliminating some climate, housing and education programmes. The request, which will need to be approved by the US Congress, is separate from the $200bn that the Pentagon has sought for the war in Iran. A summary of the budget posted online notes that the cuts will be achieved by "reducing or eliminating woke, weaponised and wasteful programmes, and by returning local responsibilities to their respective governments". US President Donald Trump has long signalled a desire to increase the defence budget and boost domestic defence manufacturing. At a private event at the White House earlier this week - which was caught on camera - Trump said that military spending should be a national priority going forward. "It's not possible for us to take care of daycare, Medicaid, Medicare, all of these individual things, they can do it on a state basis," the president said, adding that the focus should be on "military protection". Non-defence spending in the proposed budget has fallen by 10%, or about $73bn. Trump's proposed budget would mark a 42% increase over the previous fiscal year, totalling $445bn. Of the total, approximately $1.1tn would be in discretionary spending for the Pentagon, the highest on record. Another $350bn - specifically for the industrial defence base - would come from a process known as budget reconciliation, a procedural shortcut that lets some legislation pass the Senate with a simple majority of 51 votes. The budget also requests pay rises for troops and $65.8 billion in shipbuilding funding, including for what Trump has referred to as a "Golden Fleet" of next-generation vessels. These include the heavily-armed Trump-class battleships unveiled in December. Trump said at a news conference announcing the battleship that the construction of the first of the vessels, the USS Defiant, would begin soon, with the first ships operational in two-and-a-half years. Administration officials have repeatedly warned that the US currently lags behind China in both shipbuilding capacity and total output. Additionally, the budget also includes an unclear amount of funding for the $185bn Golden Dome, which officials have said will include multiple layers of land, sea and space based sensors and interceptors designed to protect the US from next-generation missiles and drones. The Congressional Budget Office, however, has put the potential price tag at $542bn over 20 years on the space-based systems alone. Experts have said the total cost could eventually soak up a large chunk of the massive US defence budget. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth has asked Army Chief of Staff Randy George to step down from his post, according to CBS News, the BBC's US partner. Chief Pentagon spokesman Sean Parnell said in a statement on social media that George "will be retiring from his position as the 41st chief of staff of the army effective immediately". The US Army chief normally serves a four-year term. George, a career military officer who graduated from the West Point military academy, was nominated for the role in 2023 by former President Joe Biden. The latest shake-up comes after Trump said in an address to the nation that the US-Israel war with Iran was expected to conclude "very shortly". George served as an infantry officer in the first Gulf War and in recent conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. It was not immediately clear why he was being asked to leave. "We are grateful for his service, but it was time for a leadership change in the army," an unnamed senior defence official told CBS. Parnell said: "The Department of War is grateful for General George's decades of service to our nation. We wish him well in his retirement." He will be replaced by Army Vice-Chief of Staff Gen Christopher LaNeve, who will become the acting army chief of staff, according to US media. Two other army officials, Gen David Hodne and Maj Gen William Green, have also been removed from their roles, CBS reported, citing unnamed sources familiar with the matter. Hodne had led the army's Transformation and Training Command, while Green was chief of the army's Chaplain Corps. Parnell said LaNeve was "a battle-tested leader with decades of operational experience and is completely trusted by Secretary Hegseth to carry out the vision of this administration without fault". The US Military Academy at West Point posted photos on Wednesday of George meeting with troops, saying he "shared experience-driven guidance with cadets preparing to lead". Since entering the Pentagon, Hegseth has fired more than a dozen senior military officers, including the chief of naval operations and the Air Force's vice-chief of staff. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
More than 100 experts on international law have signed an open letter expressing "profound concern" about what they see as serious violations of international law by the US, Israel and Iran in the Middle East war. They say the US-Israeli decision to attack on Iran was a clear breach of the United Nations Charter, which prohibits the use of force outside of self-defence or when authorised by the UN Security Council. The experts point to "alarming rhetoric" being used by officials, including US President Donald Trump's threats to "obliterate" Iran's power plants. In response, the White House said Trump was making the entire region safer and dismissed what it described as "so-called experts". In the letter, the experts also took issue with Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth's statement that "no quarter" should be given for enemies. Denial of quarter in conflict means refusing to spare the life of anybody, even those who surrender or are wounded. In international law, say the signatories, it was "especially forbidden" to declare that no quarter will be given, a prohibition also set out in the Department of Defense's own law of war manual. They say: "We are gravely concerned that the conduct and threats outlined here are causing serious harm to civilians... and that they risk degrading the rule of law and fundamental norms that protect every nation's civilians. "Public statements by senior officials indicate an alarming disrespect for the rules of international humanitarian law accepted by states, and which protect both civilians and members of the armed forces." The White House accused the Iranian authorities of "maiming and killing Americans, acting as the primary state sponsor of terror and brutally murdering its own people for merely speaking out against its oppressive rule" for the past 47 years. Trump, it insisted, was "making the entire region safer and more stable by eliminating Iran's short- and long-term threats to the United States and our allies". The war is reported to have claimed thousands of lives: Tom Fletcher, the UN's humanitarian chief, told the BBC Radio 4's Today programme on Friday that "somewhere along the way" international law had been "thrown aside". "The rules are very clear and very strong," he added, but the problem was  "enforcement". He described the war as "reckless". The experts' letter also highlights the attack on a primary school in the Iranian town of Minab on the war's first day, reported to have killed at least 168 people including 110 children. The US Department of Defense has said it was investigating the attack, which a growing body of evidence has suggested was probably the result of a US strike. One theory believed to be part of the investigation is that the school, next to an Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps base, could have been hit as a result of outdated intelligence. The experts' letter says the strike "likely violates international humanitarian law, and if evidence is found that those responsible were reckless, it could also be a war crime". The letter has been published in Just Security, an online journal based at New York University School of Law. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Gen Christopher LaNeve is set to become acting chief of staff of the US Army. His appointment comes after US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth asked Randy George to step down from the post, which he had held since 2023. The role is the most senior position in the Army, and office holders usually serve a four year term. Pentagon spokesman Sean Parnell said LaNeve, who was the vice-chief of staff, was "a battle-tested leader with decades of operational experience and is completely trusted by Secretary Hegseth to carry out the vision of this administration without fault". It comes as US military operations against Iran continue - and as Hegseth pushes ahead with a wider shake-up of the US armed forces. The defence secretary has fired more than a dozen senior leaders in just over a year, which LaNeve has benefited from, moving into more senior roles within the Pentagon. This marks his third career move under Hegseth. He was appointed as vice-chief of staff in February 2026, after James Mingus retired from the role early. Upon that appointment, Hegseth described him as "a generational leader" who would "help ensure the army revives the warrior ethos, rebuilds for the modern battlefield and deters our enemies around the world". Prior to that, LaNeve was a senior military assistant to Hegseth, a role he had been in since April 2025. He had replaced Lt Gen Jennifer Short, who was fired by Hegseth just a few months after he entered the Pentagon in January last year. LaNeve has held several other high-level positions in the military, which he joined from the University of Arizona in 1990. Over his 36 years of service, LaNeve has led several teams, including the Eighth Army in South Korea and the 82nd Airborne Division. He has also served in multiple deployment combat missions, including in Afghanistan and Iraq. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has removed Attorney General Pam Bondi - a longtime ally and fierce defender of his administration - from her post as America's top law enforcement officer. Trump praised her in a post on Truth Social and said she would be "transitioning" to a role in the private sector. Bondi's time leading the justice department was often overshadowed by its handling of the release of files relating to Jeffrey Epstein and its investigation into the convicted sex offender. She is the second Trump administration official in recent weeks to be cut from her post, after Kristi Noem was ousted as homeland security chief in March. Bondi will be replaced by her former deputy, Todd Blanche. Blanche denied US media reports that Bondi's handling of the Epstein files had been a factor in Trump's thinking. "As President Trump said today, the attorney general made our country safe again, and she is a friend and did a great job in the first year of this administration," he told Fox News on Thursday evening. Bondi said she would be "working tirelessly" to transfer her work to Blanche, adding that the job had "been the honour" of a lifetime. She added that in her new private sector position - which she did not identify - she would "continue fighting for President Trump and this administration". The announcement comes less than two months after a combative congressional hearing in which Bondi was peppered with questions from lawmakers - at times descending into shouting matches in which she called one Democrat a "washed-up loser". As recently as Thursday morning, Trump was defending Bondi, saying: "She is a wonderful person and she is doing a good job." But hours later, Trump confirmed her departure on Truth Social, saying that her new private sector role would be "announced at a date in the near future". Trump lauded Bondi's performance as attorney general in his post, saying she had done "a tremendous job overseeing a massive crackdown in crime across our country". But the president had reportedly grown increasingly frustrated with Bondi, in particular over her handling of the Epstein files. This had led to Trump's support eroding over a period of months and to increasing displays of frustration with Bondi in private, according to two sources who spoke to the BBC's US partner CBS News. When she was sworn into the post in February 2025, Bondi vowed transparency over the Epstein case and promised to release an alleged client list associated with the disgraced financier, who died in 2019. The department later said no such list existed. In the end, millions of files related to Epstein were released under pressure -  including from Trump supporters - and only after Congress passed a law requiring the Department of Justice to make unclassified records public. The agency, and subsequently Bondi, faced bipartisan backlash, with lawmakers accusing the justice department of failing to obscure some identifying information about survivors, while protecting the identities of those who were not victims. A handful of Republicans who worked with her closely over the years praised her on Thursday. "Pam Bondi led this Department with strength and conviction and I'm grateful for her leadership and friendship," Blanche wrote on X. "We will continue backing the blue, enforcing the law, and doing everything in our power to keep America safe." Others celebrated her departure. Among them was Kentucky Republican congressman Thomas Massie, a regular critic of Bondi's handling of the Epstein files. "I hope the next AG will release all the Epstein files according to the law and follow up with investigations, prosecutions and arrests," he wrote on X. California Democrat Ro Khanna - who worked with Massie on the bipartisan law to compel the release of the files - told the BBC's Newsnight programme: "This shows that Congress isn't a doormat." Khanna said lawmakers should refuse to confirm Blanche as the next attorney general unless he will "submit to investigating and prosecuting this Epstein class, this group of men who felt that they could write their own rules, play by their own roles, and treated the rest of us as dispensable". Another Republican critic of Bondi's, South Carolina representative Nancy Mace, accused her of having "stonewalled every effort to hold the guilty accountable" and "seriously undermined" Trump with her handling of the files. Survivors also told the BBC that Bondi had yet to meet them or respond to their emails about Epstein's wrongdoing, and that the matter had become a political liability for Trump. Bondi has called Epstein a "monster" and told the victims she was sorry for the abuse they endured. Most recently, a congressional committee formally summoned Bondi to answer questions over her handling of the Epstein investigation. She was expected to appear before them this month. Under her leadership, the justice department has pursued a number of criminal investigations into political opponents of the president, including California Senator Adam Schiff, New York Attorney General Letitia James and former FBI Director James Comey. In September, Trump pushed Bondi to more aggressively investigate his political adversaries. He said in a social media post addressed directly to Bondi: "We can't delay any longer, it's killing our reputation and credibility." The justice department under her tenure faced questions over its handling of the investigation into federal immigration agents fatally shooting two people during confrontations in Minneapolis, Minnesota, which sparked nationwide demonstrations in January. With Trump's announcement, Bondi becomes the third high-profile member of Trump's cabinet to leave this term, following Noem and, last year, National Security Adviser Mike Waltz - whose duties were given to US Secretary of State Marco Rubio. The relatively intact inner circle of this Trump presidency stands in stark contrast to his first term in office between 2017-21, which was a revolving door of firings and replacements. In the first year alone, the administration saw the departure of acting Attorney General Sally Yates, National Security Adviser Mike Flynn, FBI Director James Comey, Chief of Staff Reince Priebus, chief strategist Steve Bannon and two press secretaries, among others. Since returning to the White House last year, commentators and political strategists had remarked that Trump's approach in his second term had been more disciplined and less chaotic. Bondi was part of Trump's legal team during his first impeachment trial and when he claimed without evidence that the 2020 election had been stolen from him through mass voter fraud. She also publicly supported him by showing up at court during his hush money trial in New York, which ended in May with a conviction of 34 counts of fraud. Trump is appealing against the verdict. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Conflict across the Middle East continues to rage after the US and Israel launched wide-ranging strikes on Iran, killing the country's supreme leader on 28 February. Iran has responded by launching attacks on Israel and US-allied states in the Gulf. The fighting escalated quickly, spreading to Lebanon, with casualties and damage mounting on all sides. When the US and Israel first attacked, they targeted Iran's missile infrastructure, military sites and leadership in the capital, Tehran, and across the country. Iran's Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who had led the country since 1989, was killed during the first wave of strikes. Israel's military say dozens more senior figures in the powerful Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) were also killed. Khamenei's son, Mojtaba Khamenei, was named as his successor on 8 March. Other high-ranking Iranian officials killed include security chief Ali Larijani, intelligence minister Esmail Khatib and the head of the paramilitary Basij force, Gholamreza Soleimani. Israel says it targeted them in air strikes. The US and Israel have also targeted key sites linked to Iran's nuclear programme - which Iran insists is entirely peaceful - and Iranian oil and gas sites. They include Kharg Island, home to a major oil terminal that is considered Iran's economic lifeline. Israel also targeted South Pars, part of the world's largest natural gas field. The US-based group Human Rights Activists in Iran (HRANA) reported on 2 April that 3,530 people had been killed in Iran since the war began – including 1,606 civilians, of whom at least 244 were children. Iran accused the US and Israel of launching an attack on a girls' school near an IRGC base in southern Iran on 28 February, saying 168 people, including around 110 children, were killed. The US said it was investigating the incident, while Israel said it was "not aware" of any military operations in the area. Expert video analysis shows a US Tomahawk missile hit a military base near the school, BBC Verify has reported. Access to Iran for international journalists is limited, and internet connectivity in the country has been almost entirely restricted. On 3 April, a US F-15 fighter jet was shot down over western Iran, according to US and Israeli media reports. The pilot was rescued while a search and rescue operation - which also came under fire - continued to find a second crew member. Outside its territory, an Iranian warship was sunk by a US submarine in the Indian Ocean near Sri Lanka on 4 March. At least 87 people were killed. Iran has described the US and Israeli strikes as "unprovoked, illegal and illegitimate", and has carried out widespread missile and drone attacks in response. The IRGC said it had targeted Israeli government and military sites in Tel Aviv and elsewhere. As of 29 March, Israel's Magen David Adom ambulance service (MDA) said 19 people had been killed by missile fire since the start of the war. There have also been strikes in countries hosting US bases – Qatar, Bahrain, Jordan, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Kuwait – and US-allied Oman and Saudi Arabia. Thirteen US service members have been killed. Iran has also been accused of attacking oil and gas facilities, shipping and civilian sites. At least 24 people have been killed across the Gulf so far, most of them security personnel or foreign workers. The UAE has reported 13 deaths, including a civilian contractor with its military who was killed in Bahrain. Seven people have died in Kuwait, while Oman, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain have each reported two deaths. In northern Iraq, a French soldier was killed by a drone at a Kurdish military base. On 25 March, seven Iraqi soldiers were killed in an airstrike in Anbar province, in the west of the country, according to a statement from the Iraqi Ministry of Defence. The statement did not say who had carried out the attack. Also in Iraq, the Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF) - formed in the last decade to fight the Islamic State group - said at least 27 of their members have been killed. In the Israeli-occupied West Bank, four Palestinian women were killed at a beauty salon in an Iranian missile attack. Turkey said Nato air defences had shot down three Iranian missiles over its airspace. Azerbaijan accused Iran of attacking an airport with drones. The US and its Arab allies have condemned Iran's attacks, saying "the targeting of civilians and of countries not engaged in hostilities is reckless". On 14 March, the Palestinian armed group Hamas in Gaza urged Iran to stop attacking Gulf states, in a rare appeal to its key ally. On 7 March, Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian apologised to neighbouring countries that were attacked and said "from now on" the military should not attack neighbouring countries "unless attacked first". But since then, attacks have continued. Elsewhere, a British military base in Cyprus was struck by a drone, according to the UK Ministry of Defence. Western officials later said the drone had not been launched from Iran. On 21 March, Iran reportedly fired two ballistic missiles at the UK military base on Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean - but neither missile reached the target. A new front in the war opened in Lebanon on 2 March when the Iran-backed group Hezbollah fired rockets at Israeli positions, saying it was seeking to avenge Khamenei's assassination. Israel launched attacks in response, hitting southern and central Beirut and parts of southern and eastern Lebanon. Israel's defence minister said on 3 March that ground troops would "advance and seize additional strategic areas in Lebanon" in order to stop attacks from Hezbollah and keep security control over a swathe of southern Lebanon even after the end of the current war. As of 2 April, Lebanon's health ministry said Israeli attacks had killed 1,345 people, including 125 children. More than a million people - roughly one in every six in the country - have been displaced from their homes, Lebanon's government said. The Israeli military reported 10 of its soldiers have been killed in Lebanon as of 31 March. Three Indonesian peacekeepers have also been killed in southern Lebanon, the UN agency tasked with policing the region has said. Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz described the first strikes on Iran as a "pre-emptive" to "remove threats against the state of Israel", although he did not explain why there was a need to take military action at this time. US Secretary of State Marco Rubio said on 2 March Washington knew there was going to be Israeli action, which meant America had to act "pre-emptively" in the face of expected Iranian attacks on US forces. But there are also underlying reasons. Israel and the US – its closest ally – have been arch-foes of Iran since the Islamic revolution in 1979. The Iranian leadership has consistently called for Israel's elimination and denounced the US as its greatest enemy. The two countries have led Western opposition to Iran's nuclear programme, claiming Iran is seeking to develop a nuclear bomb - something Iran has vehemently denied. They attacked Iranian nuclear and military sites in June 2025 in a 12-day war. Since then, they have claimed Iran has been trying to rebuild its nuclear programme and develop missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons. Israel considers Iran a threat to its existence and wants the complete removal of Iran's nuclear and missile programme, as well as regime change. The US first openly talked in January about potentially attacking Iran when its security forces cracked down on protesters with deadly force. But the US and Iran began negotiations and appeared to be making progress until Trump said he was "not happy" with the way the talks were going on 27 February. Hours later, the US and Israel began attacking. Instability in the Middle East has begun to impact the global economy. Iran has been accused of attacking ships in the Gulf, forcing the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz - a key artery accounting for about 20% of global oil supply. Trump has postponed his initial threat to strike Iranian power plants and energy infrastructure unless Iran opens the strait, citing what he described as "good" and "productive" talks. Iran, however, has denied any such talks have taken place. Attacks have been reported on major oil and gas hubs throughout the war. The strikes have prompted some of the world's largest producers of oil and gas to suspend production - leading to a sharp rise in energy prices. On 31 March, Trump said that US military action in Iran could end as soon as "two or three weeks", with or without a deal brokered between the two sides. He previously laid out an expansive mission for the war, with the goal to ensure that Iran could not develop weaponry to target the US, Israel or any American allies "for a very long time". Trump said that the US has achieved its goals in the country, primarily that of curtailing Iran's ability to obtain a nuclear weapon. The US would therefore be leaving Iran "very soon", he said. Iran's president, Masoud Pezeshkian, said on 31 March that Tehran had the "necessary will" to end the war but his country would need guarantees "required to prevent repetition of the aggression". Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said at the start of the war the campaign would "continue as long as it is needed". The war has prompted one of the most serious disruptions to global travel since the Covid-19 pandemic. Some airlines have carried on operating or have resumed limited flights. The UK foreign office said anyone planning to travel to the Middle East should check its website for advice relating to their destination. Reporting by Mallory Moench, Raffi Berg, Emily Atkinson, Olivia Ireland, Robert Greenall, Hafsa Khalil, Gabriela Pomeroy, Jaroslav Lukiv and BBC Persian The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down on Friday over southern Iran. President Donald Trump confirmed the rescue on social media on Sunday morning after the US military "pulled off one of the most daring Search and Rescue Operations" in its history. The officer is "now SAFE and SOUND!" he added, though in a later post Trump said he had been "seriously wounded". Two crew members were on board the jet, and both ejected from the plane. One of them had already been rescued by US forces. Iranian officials said the warplane was shot down by its air defence system. Details around the rescue operation and how it unfolded are still emerging. Here is what we know so far. The US and Iran were in a race to locate the missing crew member after the jet was downed over southern Iran. The exact circumstances of the US rescue remain unclear, but one person familiar with the operation described it as a "huge" combat search and rescue mission in southern Iran. Trump paused a number of other operations in Iran to focus on the rescue, directing dozens of special operations forces personnel to the effort, the BBC's US partner CBS reported. "This type of raid is seldom attempted because of the danger to 'man and equipment.' It just doesn't happen!" the president said on social media. The rescue of crew members of a downed jet is one of the most complex and time-sensitive operations - known as combat search and rescue (CSAR) - that the US military and its allies prepare for. The missions are often conducted by helicopters, which fly low over enemy territory, alongside other military aircraft that conduct strikes and patrol the area. In his social media post, Trump said the airman - a colonel - "was behind enemy lines in the treacherous mountains of Iran, being hunted down by our enemies, who were getting closer and closer by the hour". Officials told US media that the crew member spent more than 24 hours on his own, hiding in the mountains with a handgun. He was said to have hidden in a mountain crevice and hiked up a 7,000ft (2,000m) ridge line. The president added the airman's location was monitored "24 hours a day" by officials who were planning the rescue operation. After he was rescued, he was flown to Kuwait to receive treatment for his injuries, CBS said quoting US officials. Media reports said the CIA played a crucial role in the rescue mission by tracking the airman in a mountain crevice and passing his exact location to the Pentagon. The agency engaged in a deception campaign inside Iran, reports said. While the rescue attempt was taking place, it spread word the airman had already been found and was being extracted. Trump said the US military sent dozens of aircraft into Iran and claimed the operation was carried out without any Americans being killed or wounded. Iranian state media reported that troops from the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) shot down a US drone searching for the missing airman. Earlier, Iran had said it wanted to find the missing American alive and had offered a reward to citizens for help in finding them. The crew of a downed jet are highly trained for such situations. "Their number-one priority is to stay alive and to avoid capture," Jennifer Kavanagh, director of military analysis at think tank Defense Priorities, told the BBC. "They're trained to... try to get away from the ejection site as quickly as possible, and to conceal themselves so that they are safe." They're also trained on survival techniques so that they can go without food or water, or find resources from the local terrain, for as long as possible, Kavanagh said. Iranian state media first claimed on Friday that the country's forces shot down a US jet over its southern region. The exact location where the F-15 was reportedly downed was unconfirmed, but two possible provinces were mentioned in Iran's state media - Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad, and Khuzestan. Two crew members were on board. The pilot was recovered in an earlier operation. That operation reportedly included an A-10 Warthog aircraft which was hit over the Gulf, with its pilot ejecting before being rescued. One helicopter carrying the rescued pilot from the F-15E jet was hit by small arms fire, injuring crew members on board - but it landed safely, US media reported. Iran's top joint military command has credited new Iranian air defence systems with the downing of both US warplanes, according to Iran's state-affiliated IRNA news agency. The F-15E is designed for both air-to-ground and air-to-air missions. In Iran, they are most likely to have been involved in defensive roles to shoot down Iranian drones and cruise missiles. In its air-to-ground strike role, the jet is capable of dropping laser and GPS guided precision munitions, as well as other bombs. The aircraft has two crew: the pilot and a weapons systems officer in the back seat. The weapons officer, known as a "Wizzo", is responsible for selecting targets and making sure the weapons are programmed for the appropriate attack. We do not know what specifically brought down this US jet, but if it was taken down by the Iranians, the most likely reason is a surface-to-air missile (SAM). The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A former US marine tells the BBC the priority of any recovery team would be to look for signs of life. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A second US crew member who was missing in Iran after an American F-15 fighter jet was shot down has been rescued. Posting to social media, US President Donald Trump said the rescued weapons systems officer had "sustained injuries" but would be "just fine", describing the rescue as "one of the most daring search and rescue operations in US history". Following the downing of the aircraft on Friday, both the pilot and crew member ejected - with the pilot recovered shortly afterwards. Following this, both the US and Iran scrambled to locate the missing crew member in a mountainous region of southwestern Iran. The search presented a serious test for the US, with the possibility of a prisoner of war situation if Iran found the missing airman - something which would have likely involved him being used as part of propaganda material. Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) was said to have launched its own search for the missing American, reportedly using troops and locals, and offering them a reward of about $66,000 (£50,000) to capture him alive. Videos on social media appeared to show hundreds of people heading to a mountainous area in south-western Iran to search for the missing US airman. Details of the second airman being rescued emerged in US media late on Saturday night. A short time later, Trump confirmed the successful mission on Truth Social, writing "WE GOT HIM!", adding the crew member was a "respected colonel". The US rescue operation was described to the BBC as "huge" by one person familiar with the details. The BBC understands that there was an engagement between the US and Iranian forces during the rescue, and that the pilot may have been injured during his initial ejection from the aircraft. Tasnim, the semi-official news agency associated with the IRGC, said five Iranians were killed during the operation. Trump said dozens of aircraft had been involved in the operation, with the White House not giving an update after the pilot was recovered on Friday to protect the ongoing rescue. Earlier reports suggested the missing crew member might be in the mountainous area of Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad province, in the southwestern regions of Iran. Officials told the BBC's US partner CBS News that the crew member spent more than 24 hours on his own, hiding in the mountains with a handgun. A senior official also told CBS that the CIA played a crucial in the rescue mission by tracking the airman in a mountain crevice and passing his exact location to the Pentagon. The agency engaged in a deception campaign inside Iran, reports said. While the rescue attempt was taking place, the agency spread word the airman had already been found and was being extracted from Iran. Meanwhile, Iran's IRGC previously said that nomadic tribes living in the country's mountains shot two Black Hawk helicopters that were part of the US rescue mission. BBC Verify has confirmed a video from Friday showing what appears to be three armed individuals firing towards at least two Black Hawk helicopters. The rescue operation reportedly included an A-10 Warthog aircraft which was hit over the Gulf, with its pilot ejecting before being rescued. The recovery of the F-15 crew member comes as intense fighting continues in the region. On Sunday morning, authorities in Abu Dhabi said they were battling fires at a Borouge petrochemical facility caused by falling debris from an Iranian missile. There were also report of attacks on Kuwait and Israel overnight into Sunday. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The niece and grand-niece of the deceased commander of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, Gen Qasem Soleimani, have been arrested, the US state department has said. Hamideh Soleimani Afshar and her daughter's lawful US permanent resident status was revoked by Secretary of State Marco Rubio, a statement released on Saturday said. However, Soleimani's daughter has called the state department's claims false, saying the arrested individuals "have no connection whatsoever" to her father. Soleimani, who was Iran's most powerful military commander, was killed in 2020 in a US air strike in Iraq which was ordered by then US President Donald Trump. In a post on social media, Rubio said the two women were in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), pending removal from the country. He added in the statement on X that Soleimani Afshar and her daughter were "green card holders living lavishly in the United States". After entering the US on a tourist visa in 2015, Soleimani Afshar was granted asylum in 2019 and became a green card holder in 2021, the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) said in a statement to the BBC's US partner CBS News. In filing for a naturalisation application in 2025, she revealed that she had visited Iran four times since receiving her green card, according to the DHS. "Her trips to Iran illustrate her asylum claims were fraudulent," the DHS said. The DHS added that Soleimani Afshar's daughter, Sarinasadat Hosseiny, came to the US in 2015 on a student visa and was later granted asylum in 2019 and a green card in 2023. The state department said Soleimani Afshar was an "outspoken supporter of the totalitarian, terrorist regime in Iran" and had promoted "Iranian regime propaganda" on her social media account. Soleimani Afshar's husband has also been barred from the US, the statement said. The state department did not name Soleimani Afshar's husband. In a statement, Narjes Soleimani, Soleimani's daughter, said: "The individuals arrested in the US have no connection whatsoever to Martyr Soleimani and the claims made by the US State Department are false." She added that the US had "become so weak and insignificant" and was "fabricating lies against a great figure". The BBC contacted the state department for further comment, but it said it had "nothing to add". Soleimani spearheaded Iranian military operations in the Middle East as head of Iran's elite Quds Force. The 62-year-old was killed at Baghdad airport, along with other Iran-backed militia figures. Trump spoke about Soleimani during his national address on Wednesday, referencing the strike he ordered on the commander. "I killed Gen Qasem Soleimani in my first term. He was an evil genius, brilliant person, a horrible human being however, the father of the roadside bomb, and he lived just horrible, what he did," Trump said. He added that Iran would have been "perhaps in a far better, stronger position" in the war if Soleimani was still alive. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Donald Trump had said Iran couldn't "do a thing" about American aircraft operating over its territory, insisting its air defences had been significantly weakened. His Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth also said the US had achieved "air superiority" over Iran. So, Friday's downing of a F-15 Eagle is a significant blow to Washington DC. It suggests Iran is still able to defend its skies, even if at a limited capacity. The stakes could rise further, though, depending on who the missing weapons systems officer is captured, or rescued, by. The BBC understands President Trump's national security team spent much of Thursday in the West Wing briefing him on a search-and-rescue mission that also came under Iranian fire. US media report the crew were wounded but managed to escape Iranian airspace. Publicly, the president has played down this entire incident and suggested it won't affect negotiations with Tehran to end the war that began with US and Israeli strikes on 28 February. But privately, this is likely to be of serious concern - particularly as Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps is said to have launched its own search for the missing American, reportedly using troops and locals, and offering them a reward of around $66,000 (£50,000) to capture him alive. If the missing American is found by Iranian forces, the implications could be profound. At the very least, it would be a political embarrassment for Washington. The US airman could be paraded as a propaganda tool, which would bring back grim reminders of the 1979 Iran hostage crisis, when American diplomats were held for 444 days. Following a failed military rescue, the US secured their release by lifting some sanctions and unfreezing nearly $8bn worth of Iranian assets. It was an event that left deep political scars in the US. Successive administrations also went to great lengths to secure the release of detained Americans, at times through controversial means. For example, in 2014, President Barack Obama's administration exchanged five Taliban detainees, held at Guantanamo Bay detention camp, for Bowe Bergdahl, a US Army soldier captured by the Taliban in Afghanistan in 2009. Critics argued this swap incentivised future hostage-taking. That history raises difficult questions for this White House. The capture of a US service member could intensify pressure on President Trump to act decisively and escalate militarily in response, or, on the other hand, it could create an opening to pause operations and pursue backchannel efforts to secure the airman's return. If the missing American is captured by the Iranians and used as a bargaining chip, it would be a serious test for Washington in this already volatile conflict. For now, what's unfolding is a high-stakes race on the ground between the two adversaries to find him. Lawmakers here in Washington have said prayers and expressed support. However, divisions are emerging. Republican Congresswoman Nancy Mace said it was "far past time we bring troops home", while Democratic Senator Tim Kaine urged Iran to treat any captured airman in line with international law. There is growing concern about the risk to US service personnel in this conflict, particularly amid talk of a possible ground invasion. Across the political spectrum, there is little appetite for another so-called "forever war", or for further American casualties. On Saturday, President Trump reiterated his deadline for Iran to agree to a deal and reopen the Strait of Hormuz by Monday, 6 April, or face "hell", including strikes on its energy infrastructure. His deadlines have shifted repeatedly, alongside claims that ongoing talks are "very good" and "productive" - talks Tehran denies have taken place. With promises of further US strikes in the coming weeks, a steady US military build-up in the Gulf, and forewarnings by Trump of further US casualties, the signs increasingly point to an escalation that is already under way. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. A former US marine tells the BBC the priority of any recovery team would be to look for signs of life. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A US pilot has reportedly been rescued after their F-15 fighter jet was shot down over western Iran, the BBC's US partner CBS News reports, citing unnamed US officials. A search is under way for a second crew member. The search and rescue mission to retrieve the crew - consisting of a Warthog jet and two helicopters - came under fire, causing the Warthog's pilot to eject over the Persian Gulf, where they were recovered, the report said. The helicopter that rescued the F-15 pilot was also attacked, wounding crew members, CBS News further reports. The apparent incident comes despite US President Donald Trump saying on Wednesday that Iran's drone and missile capabilities had been "decimated". Reports that a US F-15E jet had been downed were first published by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) affiliated Tasnim news agency. If confirmed, it would mark the first time a US jet has been taken out by Iran since the start of the war. CBS reports, citing two US officials, that the rescue helicopter that came under attack was able to land safely and all service personnel are receiving medical treatment. Social media footage verified by the BBC shows a plane and two helicopters flying low over Khuzestan province, consistent with a search and rescue mission. The governor of Iran's southern Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad province - which sits beside Khuzestan province - has said that "capturing" any downed US crew "alive" was a priority, according to the semi-official ISNA news agency. Iranian outlets have said that a reward of 10 billion tomans (around £50,000) has been set to find the "intruder". Asked by the BBC about reports that a US fighter jet had been shot down, the White House provided a statement that said only that "the president has been briefed". Israel has held off planned strikes in the search area, CNN and Israel's Channel 12 report, citing Israeli officials. The Israel Defense Forces has not confirmed these reports. The US had denied a report on Thursday morning by the IRGC that a fighter jet pilot had been shot down over Qeshm Island in the Strait of Hormuz. The apparent downing of the jet comes after both Trump and US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth have each repeatedly suggested that the US had already effectively won the war with Iran. Trump said in a televised address on Wednesday that the US military had nearly completed its objectives, vowing to strike Iran "extremely hard" over the coming two or three weeks. Iranian attacks across the region have continued despite US forces saying they had struck more than 12,300 targets, including naval vessels and facilities, missile launchers and defence manufacturing plants. Trump has also touted talks with the Iranian regime, though Tehran has denied any contact with his administration. The Wall Street Journal reports that efforts to reach a ceasefire have hit a dead end, with Iranian officials unwilling to meet US counterparts. The prospect of US casualties could also complicate Trump's efforts to assure the US public, particularly those within his Maga base who have grown alarmed at the prospect of a long-running, messy conflict overseas of the kind against which Trump campaigned. New figures released by the Pentagon show 365 American service members have been injured as part of US operations against Iran. Already, some commentators and political pundits are publicly questioning the utility of putting American lives at risk for a conflict they see as having poorly defined, rapidly morphing objectives and an unclear strategy to end the war. The Trump administration initially said its goal was to destroy Iran's nuclear programme - but it has since also listed destroying Iran's ballistic missile capabilities and its navy, as well as diminishing its support for regional proxies, as among its aims. Opinion polls have consistently shown that the US public is generally against the war and the Trump administration's handling of it. The F-15 would not be the first US aircraft to be taken out of service during the course of the conflict, which began five weeks ago with US and Israeli strikes on Iran, prompting retaliatory strikes across the region. Three US fighter jets were mistakenly shot down by Kuwaiti air defences in early March, in what Centcom described as "an apparent friendly fire incident". All six crew ejected safely and were recovered. In March, six crew members of a US military refuelling aircraft died after it crashed in western Iraq. Centcom said neither hostile nor friendly fire were involved in the loss of the KC-135 aircraft. The US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency says that 1,606 civilians, including at least 244 children, have been killed in Iran since the start of the conflict. The F-15E Strike Eagle can fly at low altitudes and typically contains a pilot and a weapons systems officer. One of them costs around $100m (£75m) and is equipped with a radar system that enables the detection of ground targets from long ranges. It is designed to perform both air-to-air and air-to-ground combat missions. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. A former US marine tells the BBC the priority of any recovery team would be to look for signs of life. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US government has urged all Americans to leave Lebanon immediately, following a similar warning for those in Iraq. The US embassy in Beirut warned that the security situation in Lebanon was "volatile and unpredictable", with air strikes, drone activity and rocket attacks reported, particularly in the south, the Beqaa Valley, and parts of the capital. US universities in the region have also been threatened, the embassy warned, adding that Iran and its aligned militias may target institutions in Lebanon. The advisory follows recent developments, including a US fighter jet reportedly being shot down over Iran and strikes by the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) on parts of Beirut. On Friday, the embassy in Beirut recommended that Americans should not travel to Lebanon and that those already in the country must depart while commercial flights remain available. Those opting to stay were advised to prepare contingency plans for emergency situations and to be ready to shelter in place if the situation worsened. The embassy also "strongly" urged Americans in southern Lebanon, near the Syrian border, in refugee settlements and in the  southern suburbs of Beirut, including Dahieh, to leave  those areas immediately. Earlier this year, in February, the US government had ordered all non-essential staff to leave its embassy in Beirut following a security review. About 50 members of US embassy staff were ordered to leave at the time. Americans in Iraq were also urged to evacuate on Thursday, days after a US journalist was kidnapped in Baghdad by an Iran-backed militia group. The US embassy in Iraq said that militia groups aligned with Iran may conduct attacks in central Baghdad in the coming 24 to 48 hours. On Friday, the IDF confirmed it had launched another wave of strikes on Tehran and had begun targeting parts of Beirut. Meanwhile, an explosion "inside a UN position" in Lebanon injured three UN peacekeepers, the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (Unifil) said on Friday. Two of the peacekeepers were seriously injured, the agency said. Spokeswoman Kandice Ardiel said the blast occurred near El Adeisse, in southern Lebanon, with the origin of the explosion not yet identified. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Multiple weapons experts have disputed a US claim that Iran may have been responsible for a deadly strike on the town of Lamerd on the first day of the war. Six experts - who examined footage of the strike and all commented independently - contested the US suggestion that it was an Iranian missile, citing the missile's visual features, the way it exploded, its trajectory and the number of strikes in the area as the basis for their analysis. Iranian officials have said 21 people, including four children, were killed. BBC Verify originally reported on the strikes on 28 March, citing experts who said it was likely a US Precision Strike Missile (PrSM) was used. The US Central Command (Centcom) - which oversees US military operations in the Middle East - declined to comment for that report. Centcom then released a statement on 31 March denying it was a US missile, instead saying that footage of the attack was consistent with an Iranian Hoveyzeh cruise missile. "US forces do not target civilians, unlike the Iranian regime which has attacked civilian locations in neighboring countries more than 300 times," the statement added. When BBC Verify went back to Centcom with the experts' analysis, it said it had "nothing to add" to its original statement. Lamerd, a town in southern Iran, came under attack on 28 February. CCTV footage published by Iranian state media - which was authenticated and geolocated by BBC Verify - showed a munition moments before it exploded above a residential area. Experts identified it as likely being a US missile, based on its appearance, the size of the blast and the distance from potential US launch sites in the Middle East. In BBC Verify's initial report, three analysts at the defence intelligence company Janes and an expert at McKenzie Intelligence all said the missile seen in the footage was likely a PrSM - a brand new missile manufactured by Lockheed Martin for the US military. A New York Times report also found that a PrSM likely hit Lamerd. On Tuesday US Navy Capt Tim Hawkins said in the statement: "After looking into the reports, U.S. Central Command has confirmed the accusations are false." "U.S. forces did not launch any strikes at any time into the city of Lamerd or anywhere within 30 miles during the opening day of Operation Epic Fury," adding that it "does not show a Precision Strike Missile (PrSM)". "The munition depicted in the video appears to be twice as long, consistent with the dimensions and silhouette of an Iranian Hoveyzeh cruise missile," Capt Hawkins said. Multiple weapons experts have disputed Centcom's claims, noting the Hoveyzeh has a number of distinctive features which they say are not visible in the Lamerd strike footage. On the same day nearly 400km east, strikes hit an Iranian school and a nearby military base in Minab, killing 168 people according to Iranian officials. Expert video analysis suggests a US Tomahawk missile struck the military compound. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said the incident was under investigation, adding that US forces "never target civilian targets". Amael Kotlarski, a weapons analyst at Janes - a defence intelligence company - said that the Hoveyzeh missile has a belly-mounted turbojet and a pair of mid-body wings. "Crucially, no matter the angle from which the missile is viewed from, the wings and the turbo jet would be visible. None of that is clearly distinguishable from the footage," he said. Another munitions expert from McKenzie Intelligence also said the missile seen in the video had no wings or external engine. They said that distinctive "canard fins", consistent with a PrSM, are visible in the footage. "I remain convinced that the weapon seen is a PrSM and not a Iranian Hoveyzeh Cruise Missile - the two are vastly different in appearance," they added. Trevor Ball, a weapons expert with the investigative outlet Bellingcat said in a post on X that the length of the missile was "much more consistent with the PrSM" than a Hoveyzeh missile. "The Hoveyzeh silhouette is also much different, with wings and a visible engine depending on angle," he added. In the verified CCTV footage, the munition appears to explode mid-air above a Lamerd residential area. Experts say this is consistent with the airburst feature of a PrSM, where a weapon explodes above the ground to disperse fragments over a wider area, which is seen in some technologically advanced missiles. Despite the footage being low resolution, a mid-air explosion is clearly visible. Experts say this is not a known capability of the Hoveyzeh missile. The manufacturer, Lockheed Martin, describes the PrSM as an "optimized warhead" which contains pre-formed fragments that explode outwards. This, it says, "increases lethality" and "maximizes area effects". Intelligence expert and ex-National Crime Agency (NCA) investigator Chris Proops said the mid-air explosion was more consistent with a PrSM than any Iranian cruise missile currently in service. Images taken after the strike further support the assessment that an airburst munition was used. It shows the walls and ground covered by small tightly-packed impact marks which match the spread of fragments from an airburst warhead like a PrSM, according to expert analysis. "Those pock marks are witness marks of a fragmentation munition," an analyst from McKenzie Intelligence said. Kotlarski from Janes added: "To put it simply, the warhead behaviour and effect from the Lamerd strike displays a level of technical sophistication that we have not observed, so far, from any Iranian cruise or ballistic missile." He said that while there is "little solid data" on the Hoveyzeh's warhead, it is thought to use a more "primitive" impact-fuzed high-explosive warhead, meaning it would detonate on or after hitting a target. Since our initial investigation, BBC Verify has confirmed additional footage that shows there were three separate strikes on a sports hall, a residential area and near an educational centre in Lamerd that day. "While it is feasible that an Iranian cruise missile could malfunction, it is a bit beyond credulity to have a number of them fail above the same location at the same time," said an analyst from McKenzie Intelligence. Experts also say the munition in the verified CCTV footage does not appear to be damaged, malfunctioning or intercepted. N R Jenzen Jones, director of Armament Research Services, said although it's difficult to positively identify the munition, "it appears to be correctly aligned for the terminal phase of its flight". Newly published footage, shared by pro-government local media and confirmed by BBC Verify, shows that a small primary school which is located next to the sports hall was also damaged. Debris and warped metal which may be munition fragments can also be seen on a street in the residential area. But multiple experts BBC Verify spoke to could not identify the fragments. The intended target on the day may have been an Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) compound adjacent to the sports hall. BBC Verify has reviewed dozens of photos and videos of the aftermath of the strike and has not yet seen any on-the-ground footage of the IRGC base after the attack. The base also appeared to be undamaged in high-resolution satellite imagery on 9 March. Centcom's statement says US forces did not launch any strikes at any time into the city of Lamerd or anywhere within 30 miles during the opening day of Operation Epic Fury. But the US Department of Defense has previously posted an illustrative map captioned "First 100 hours" of the US-Israeli war with Iran, marking the locations of US-Israeli strikes and Iranian air defences along Iran's southern coast, including the area around Lamerd. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) also told BBC Verify that it was not aware of any Israeli strikes in that part of Lamerd on 28 February. BBC Verify asked Centcom for further details about its assessment of what happened in Lamerd, but it did not provide any additional information. Additional reporting by Peter Mwai and Matt Murphy. What claims do you want BBC Verify to investigate? The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
From a lectern at the White House, US President Donald Trump offered his latest assessment on how long the US-Israeli war with Iran might last. Speaking on Wednesday night in his first televised national address on the war since he launched it in late February, Trump said the US was on track to achieve its military objectives in Iran "shortly, very shortly". Trump reminded Americans that the conflict had so far been shorter than years-long wars such as World War Two and the Vietnam War, then gave an updated timeline. "Over the next two to three weeks, we're going to bring them back to the Stone Ages, where they belong," he said. The remarks were far from the first time that Trump, or senior members of his administration, have volunteered a timeline. When Trump announced the start of his operation on 28 February, he said it would proceed "as long as necessary to achieve our objective". Since then, the president has oscillated between saying the US has already won the war and that the military campaign will continue for a number of weeks, usually ranging between two and six. The six-week mark of the war will fall on 11 April. Analysts who spoke to the BBC said it was typical for a US president to offer a timeframe for a conflict in an attempt to win favour with the public - only to then shift their estimates. But the approach of the Trump administration had been unique, one expert said. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth has appeared to suggest that there could be a tactical advantage to the apparent fluidity. Answering reporters' questions on Wednesday, he said: "Don't tell your enemy what you're willing to do or not do, and don't tell your enemy when you're willing to stop." "[Trump] said four to six weeks, six to eight weeks, three," Hegseth added. "It could be any particular number, but we would never reveal precisely what it is, because our goal is to finish those objectives, and we're well on our way." As the conflict has continued, others in Trump's administration have offered their own predictions for how long the war might last - at times seeming to contradict the president. On 8 March, Hegseth told CBS News' 60 Minutes programme that the action seen so far was "only just the beginning". Less than 24 hours later the defence department echoed him in a social media post: "We have Only Just Begun to Fight." Yet that same day, at a news conference in Florida, Trump said the US had already made "major strides" towards achieving its military goals in Iran, adding: "And some people could say they're pretty well complete." US Secretary of State Marco Rubio, meanwhile, has given comments of his own, often landing somewhere between Trump and Hegseth. "We can see the finish line," he told Fox News on Tuesday, the day before Trump's White House speech on Iran. "It's not today, it's not tomorrow, but it's coming." Trump's is not the first US administration to face questions of this sort. Sometimes the timelines given by the president at the time have been vague, and sometimes more specific. Few of the wars, if any, ended up working out as the commander-in-chief predicted. An estimate will often shift as a conflict evolves in real time, explained Prof Eric Min, from the University of California, Los Angeles, who studies conflict resolution and diplomacy. "It is a tricky endeavour to try to figure out how long wars will last," Min said. In 1967, President Lyndon B Johnson said there was a "light at the end of the tunnel" for ending the Vietnam War. His vague rhetoric was meant to appease a nation increasingly opposed to the conflict. The effort failed - the war lasted another eight years, and its unpopularity at home helped drive Johnson's decision not to seek a second term in office. Decades later, President Bill Clinton suggested in 1999 that the Nato bombing campaign against Yugoslavia might be brief. The air strikes lasted for more than two months, longer than many had anticipated. Then there was President George W Bush's infamous "Mission Accomplished" speech aboard an aircraft carrier two months into the Iraq war. US troops didn't leave Iraq until 2011. "Presidents have often offered timelines to buy time with the public" during wars, said Thomas Patterson, a historian at the Harvard Kennedy School, "and almost all of them underestimate the time". Still, Trump's case with Iran stood out because of the number of times the president and his advisers have seemed to adjust the timeline and rationale for the war, said the experts who spoke to the BBC. "The inconsistency of positions throughout the administration is pretty unique. There's not really a historical analogue that I can think of," Min said. For its part, the White House denies any such claim - and Karoline Leavitt said last month that "Trump and his entire team have consistently laid out clear objectives". Trump's address to the nation on Wednesday was highly anticipated, because it appeared the president might make major news in his first primetime speech on the war. Washington speculated that Trump could announce that he was sending ground troops into Iran, or even that he was winding down the war. Instead, Trump spoke of another new timeframe. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has warned Iran that there will be strikes on its bridges and electric power plants if its leaders do not agree to his terms to end the war. It came after Iranian media said eight people were killed and almost 100 injured when a bridge under construction in the city of Karaj, west of Tehran, was bombed on Thursday. Many people had been picnicking near the B1 suspension bridge for the 13th day of the Nowruz holidays when it was targeted twice by US warplanes. "Our Military, the greatest and most powerful (by far!) anywhere in the World, hasn't even started destroying what's left in Iran," Trump wrote on Truth Social. "New Regime leadership knows what has to be done, and has to be done, FAST!" However, Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said on his X account that "striking civilian structures, including unfinished bridges, will not compel Iranians to surrender". He declared that the strike on the bridge "only conveys the defeat and moral collapse of an enemy in disarray", and that "damage to America's standing" would "never recover". Araghchi also responded separately to Trump's earlier vow to bomb Iran "back to the stone ages", asking whether the president was sure he wanted to "turn back the clock" to a time when "there was no oil or gas being pumped in the Middle East". It is still very difficult to contact people inside Iran amid the internet blackout imposed by Iranian authorities, which has now entered day 35. However, some people have managed to connect using satellite internet systems such as Starlink and other methods, though it comes at a high cost. Using or possessing Starlink can lead to up to two years in prison. All of those who spoke to BBC Persian from inside Iran were against the current establishment. A woman in her 20s in Tehran expressed deep concern about the attack on a bridge in Karaj and what might be targeted next. She started crying midway through the voice message. "I feel helpless. [Trump] posts shamelessly about attacking our bridge. I don't know how much further this is going to go," she said. "Why is no-one standing up to him? He's really taking us back to the Stone Age." A Tehran resident in his 20s said: "We'll end up with a ruined country. I am more disappointed and saddened that I am in the middle of a situation where I see Iran being destroyed and I can't do anything. My country is being destroyed more and more every day." The strike on the bridge in Karaj also worried one local resident who described himself as "pro-war". "That bridge could have reduced the traffic in the city... it was destroyed in the second strike. This strike has got me worried. I don't know why they hit it," said the man in his 20s. A woman in her 40s in Tehran, who also supports the US-Israeli military campaign, said: "I was really surprised that they hit a bridge… but I think they must have a reason for it." The strike in Karaj and Trump's comments were also condemned by hardline, pro-establishment Iranians on social media. Many demanded that Iran's armed forces retaliate by targeting bridges in neighbouring countries with US bases. Others warned that the strike on the bridge was another sign that the goal of the US and Israel was the "destruction of Iran" rather than its military assets. The BBC understands that some officials, pro-establishment users, and journalists still have access to the internet despite the ongoing blackout. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz after the US and Israel began their war with Iran in late February has sent shockwaves across the globe. Oil prices have soared and stock markets have wobbled as the world waits to see when Iran will allow the key waterway - through which about 20% of all oil passes - to reopen. At the moment, only a handful of ships make it through the strait each day. Meanwhile, the attacks on energy infrastructure in the region have only served to push prices higher. Arguably, nowhere has felt it more than Asia: nearly 90% of the oil and gas passing through the strait is bound for Asian countries. And already, the strain is being felt. Governments have ordered employees to work from home, cut the working week, declared national holidays and closed universities early in order to conserve their supplies. Even China - which is thought to have reserves equivalent to three months of imports - is making adjustments, limiting a fuel price hike as citizens are faced with a 20% jump in price. The war may be thousands of miles away - but people across Asia have been telling the BBC about the very real, everyday impact it is having on their lives. The Philippines has declared a national energy emergency in light of the conflict and "the resulting imminent danger posed upon the availability and stability of the country's energy supply". The impact here of a war more than 7,000km (4,300 miles) away is being felt strongly - with the country's jeepney drivers among the worst affected. Carlos Bragal Jr has seen his daily wage drop from 1,000 to 1,200 pesos ($16.60 to $19.92) for a 12-hour shift to just 200 to 500 pesos. Drivers like him were already facing a slew of issues - including excise tax and a suspended fare hike - but the recent soaring prices now mean some of his colleagues make nothing. "I have sent my daughters to school because of this job - one just graduated and the other one is a graduating student," Carlos said, adding: "We had a good life. But now, we do not know what will happen to us in the next few weeks. "If this continues, it will definitely kill us and our family." In the latest attempt to ease pressure on drivers, the city of Manila announced it would pay more than 1,000 jeepney drivers to give free rides to commuters. It is not just the jeepney drivers fearing the future, however. Fishermen and farmers are also struggling with high fuel costs. Several vegetable farmers in Bulacan have already been forced to stop planting. The government has acknowledged the issue, stepping in to offer cash assistance. But Carlos, and others, aren't impressed. "The fuel subsidy from the government isn't enough. It's for a two-day drive. So what happens after two days? Our situation now is worse than during the pandemic," Carlos said. In nearly two decades as a news presenter, Sirima Songklin has rarely been caught without a suit. But last month, she and her fellow news anchors at public broadcaster Thai PBS removed their blazers on air to promote a message: save energy by dressing appropriately in the heat amid a fuel crisis. "Taking off the suit isn't the whole solution for energy conservation, but what we did is to show that we're not ignoring what's happening. We were setting an example," Sirima told BBC Thai. "It's unbelievable that something so small could reflect the clear impact of the current conflict [in the Middle East] on us." This is one of a series of government directives since the strait was effectively closed. People in Thailand have also been asked to keep air conditioning at 26-27C, and all government agencies have been told to work from home. Things are starting to look up, according to Prime Minister Anutin Charnvirakul, who announced that Thailand has reached a deal with Iran for its tankers to pass through the Strait of Hormuz. But he has encouraged people to keep conserving fuel, urging them to carpool or use public transport. The irony of the current crisis is not lost on Dimuthu, who lives in the Sri Lankan capital, Colombo. "During the previous time, the country did not have money to buy fuel. Now, the country has money, but there is no fuel for us to buy." Sri Lanka has just emerged from a financial crisis which, in 2022, saw it run out of foreign reserves and unable to import essential items and buy enough fuel. Now it is back on a more even keel. But aware of the risks, it has brought in a series of belt-tightening measures - including declaring Wednesdays a public holiday. "I am really enjoying the mid-week break because it is a fully paid holiday," a housing ministry official told AFP. But not everyone can afford to see the silver lining in the energy crisis, such as those who directly depend on fuel for their livelihoods. "I didn't go to work today," Nimal, a lawnmower operator, told the BBC last month while waiting in line at a petrol station in Colombo - one of many swarmed by snaking queues in the uncertain days after shipping disruptions in the Strait of Hormuz. "We are fulfilling our daily needs with great difficulty. Because of [the queues]... I don't even have time to attend to work. "By the time I get back to work after getting fuel, someone else may be there as a replacement for the job." In Myanmar - engulfed by civil war since May 2021 - the military-backed authorities have brought in an alternate day policy for private vehicles as it tries to conserve fuel. For Ko Htet - not his real name - the impact is not so much on his working life, but on his social life. "I usually meet with my friends weekly and monthly," says the bank employee, who has been travelling to work on public transport. "Right now, we need to discuss whether we meet on even or odd days, making sure everyone is okay to come." He also fears a new black market for fuel may emerge over the coming months - adding to worries about the rising prices of commodities. The world's most populous country has been deeply affected by events in the Middle East since 28 February. The 10 million-strong Indian community in the Gulf is dealing with the direct fallout of the war, but at home the effects of oil and gas shortages are being felt across both homes and businesses. In the western state of Gujurat, a shortage of gas rather than oil has seen the region's ceramics industry shut down for the best part of a month. With no end in sight to the Iran conflict, the 400,000 people employed in the trade have been left in limbo. "I will have to go hungry if I continue staying here without work," Sachin Parashar, a migrant worker, told a local news channel. Some who have stayed back face uncertainty. "My employer has offered food and shelter, but I do not know what will happen if the shutdown continues indefinitely," says Bhumi Kumar, another migrant worker employed at a factory which makes tiles. India has been hit hard by the strait's closure. Roughly 60% of its liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) is imported, and about 90% of those shipments pass through the Strait of Hormuz. And it is not just factories struggling. In Mumbai - a city of more than 22 million people - as many as a fifth of all hotels and restaurants fully or partially shut in the first weeks of March. Items which take longer to cook are absent from menus. Long queues have formed across the nation as people try to get their hands on gas cylinders, even as the government tries to calm fears of a shortage. "The situation [in restaurants] is dire. Cooking gas simply isn't available," Manpreet Singh, of the National Restaurant Association of India, which represents about 500,000 restaurants, told the BBC. In an attempt to curb soaring fuel prices and relieve pressure on households and businesses, Vietnam has scrapped some fuel taxes until mid-April. The move saw fuel prices fall in the country by around 20% - though they remain significantly higher than before the war in Iran. Those on the ground tell BBC that they are struggling to manage these rising costs. In Dong Nai province, southern Vietnam, a manager at a factory that exports commodities like spices and nuts says his equipment needs diesel and LPG - which means his operational costs have increased by about 60% since the war. In the capital Hanoi, clothes seller Quang Cuong says orders at his shop have dropped significantly over the past week amid increased shipping costs. "I used to be able to provide free shipping for my buyers if their orders are at least one million Vietnamese dong ($38; £29). But now I have to charge them for it," he says. "Some people understand it, some people don't like it." For most in South Korea, daily life has chugged along without drastic changes - though worries about an energy crisis are certainly bubbling. According to local media, many South Korean households have been stockpiling plastic bags - the kind that authorities have designated for rubbish. "When I went to a nearby supermarket a few days ago, the rubbish bags were sold out," Woo Jung-suk, a resident of Seoul told the BBC. This comes amid fears of a looming shortage of these bags, due to the disruption in supply of naphtha - a petrochemical produced from crude oil and a key raw ingredient in plastics. Energy minister Kim Sung-whan has tried to calm the panic-buying with reassurance that the country will not have supply issues for more than a year. And if there indeed is a shortage of rubbish bags, authorities would allow people to use regular plastic bags to throw their waste, he wrote on Facebook. "You will never be in a situation where you are forced to store rubbish at home." South Korea's government has launched an energy-saving campaign urging people to take shorter showers and use washing machines only on weekends, among other measures. "I am practising things at home that I usually didn't pay attention to, such as turning off lights immediately and unplugging appliances," says Kim, a 20-year-old NGO worker in Seoul. "Daily life hasn't changed drastically yet, but since we are in a situation where it wouldn't be surprising if all prices went up at any moment... there is a sense of anxiety." Fears about a shortage of naphtha are also simmering in Japan, especially in hospitals. Patients and doctors have raised concerns about the depletion of critical medical supplies made with naphtha like syringes, gloves and dialysis equipment. Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi has urged calm, saying there would be no immediate disruptions and the Japanese government has set up a task force to ensure the supply of these products. But fears remain that such shortages could further stress the country's healthcare system, which is already under strain from a rapidly ageing population. Surging crude oil prices are also worrying fishermen and farmers, who rely heavily on fuel to power equipment like boats and tractors. "Fuel prices keep going up and up. At this rate, we won't be able to go out to sea," the captain of a trawler in Yamagata prefecture told the Mainichi newspaper. "It's gotten to the point where we can't keep fishing anymore." Additional reporting by Virma Simonette in Manila, Paweena Ninbut and Sen Nguyen in Bangkok, Yuna Ku in Seoul, Shirly Upul Kumara and Harini Dissanayake in Colombo, BBC Burmese, and Soutik Biswas and Abhishek Dey in Delhi. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The UK and its allies have agreed to explore using sanctions to pressure Iran into reopening the Strait of Hormuz, according to Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper. Representatives from more than 40 countries took part in a virtual summit on Thursday billed as the beginning of efforts to assemble a coalition capable of ensuring security in the Gulf shipping channel. Cooper said Iran has been able to "hijack" the international shipping route to "hold the global economy hostage" following the talks, which the US was not involved in. Iran has attacked several vessels in response to the war waged against it by the US and Israel, disrupting energy exports and sending global fuel prices soaring. Cooper noted the focus of the talks was on diplomatic measures as opposed to military options, adding the countries want to use "every possible diplomatic, economic and coordinated measure" to reopen the Strait. She said this includes increased pressure through the United Nations, exploring the possibility of sanctions to "bear down on Iran if the Strait remains closed" and working with the International Maritime Organisation to ensure the first stranded ships can get moving again. The foreign secretary said: "Iran's closure of the Strait of Hormuz is a direct threat to global prosperity." Cooper highlighted its importance in several areas, including trading routes for Gulf nations, energy exports to Asia and fertiliser supplies for farming in Africa. She added: "Iran is trying to hold the global economy hostage in the Strait of Hormuz. They must not prevail. "To that effect, partners today called for the immediate and unconditional reopening of the Strait and respect for the fundamental principles of freedom of navigation and the law of the sea." On Wednesday, US President Donald Trump said it was for other nations to "build up some delayed courage" and reopen the route. Trump said allies "should have done it" earlier, adding: "Go to the Strait and just take it. Protect it. Use it for yourselves." Washington has repeatedly accused allies of not doing enough to secure the shipping route or to support its war effort, leaving the UK and other nations weighing how to contribute to securing the strait without becoming involved in the wider war. Cooper, speaking after Thursday's talks concluded, said the government was acting in the UK national interest, with decisions "not based on any other country's priority or anything in terms of the US or other countries". French President Emmanuel Macron said it was "unrealistic" to reopen the Strait using military force, saying: "It is never the option we have chosen." Speaking during a visit to South Korea, he said: "This can only be done in concert with Iran. So, first and foremost, there must be a ceasefire and a resumption of negotiations." Downing Street has not released a full list of attendees at Thursday's talks but the US was not expected to send a representative. Countries which signed a joint statement in mid-March calling on Iranian forces to halt attacks against commercial ships were expected to take part, including some Gulf nations, as well as France, Germany, Japan, Australia and others. The statement says: "We express our readiness to contribute to appropriate efforts to ensure safe passage through the Strait. "We welcome the commitment of nations who are engaging in preparatory planning." The talks come a day after Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said the UK was "exploring each and every diplomatic avenue that is available" to reopen the route. He also said British military planners would consider what could be done in the future to "make the Strait accessible and safe after the fighting has stopped". At the same time, governments around the world are weighing how to respond to cost-of-living pressures triggered by rising energy prices. About a fifth of the world's oil and gas passes through the Strait of Hormuz. The price of a barrel of Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, has jumped from $73 (£55) to well over $100 in recent weeks. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran's two largest steel plants have been shut down due to multiple rounds of US-Israeli air strikes, the companies operating them say. "Our initial estimate is that restarting these units will take at least six months and up to one year," Mehran Pakbin, deputy head of operations at the Khuzestan Steel Company in south-western Iran, was quoted as saying by Iranian media. Mobarakeh Steel Company said its production lines in the centre of the country had "completely shut down following the high volume of attacks". The strikes, which Israeli media and Iran's foreign minister said were first launched by Israel in co-ordination with the US last Friday, could cause major damage to Iran's economy. Iran is the 10th biggest producer of steel globally, according to data from the World Steel Association. In addition to using steel domestically for construction and manufacturing, it exports the material across the world. Any halt to production could have major implications to supply chains and businesses across the country, which for years have been affected by comprehensive Western sanctions. The BBC has reached out to the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) and the US military's Central Command (Centcom) for comment. Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said in a social media post on Friday: "Israel has hit two of Iran's largest steel factories, a power plant and civilian nuclear sites among other infrastructure. Israel claims it acted in co-ordination with the US." Israeli media reported that an Israeli security source had said the strikes were expected to cause billions of dollars in damage to the Iranian economy, and that the steel plants were linked to Iran's Islamic Revolution Guard Corps (IRGC). The IRGC said it had targeted US-linked steel and aluminium facilities in Gulf states in response. On Thursday, the Israeli military reported several new incoming missile attacks from Iran, while the United Arab Emirates (UAE) said its military had "engaged with" 19 missiles and 26 drones launched from Iran. The IRGC also targeted an Amazon cloud computing centre in Bahrain, according to Iranian state media. US and Israeli forces look to have been hitting a wider range of targets in Iran in recent weeks, with US President Donald Trump and Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth saying on Wednesday that the US would bring Iran "back to the stone ages". The comments sparked concern among Iranians - even those who support US-Israeli intervention against the Islamic Republic - that the scope of the offensive is broadening beyond the Iranian government and military. There have also been attacks on health-linked facilities, with a spokesperson for Iran's health ministry confirming on Thursday that a medical research centre in Tehran - the Pasteur Institute of Iran - was attacked on 23 March. The spokesman described it as "a direct assault on international health security" and said it breached the Geneva Conventions. On Tuesday, the Iranian government said there was an attack on one of the largest pharmaceutical companies in Iran - Tofigh Daru Research & Engineering Company - which produces anaesthetic and cancer drugs. The IDF said in a statement that it had carried out the strike and alleged that the company had transferred "chemical substances, including fentanyl, that were used for research and development of chemical weapons". Separately, on Thursday, a highway bridge linking the capital Tehran to the nearby city of Karaj was hit by air strikes, Iran's semi-official Fars news agency reported. Two people were killed, according to the deputy for security at the Alborz governor's office. There was no immediate comment from the US military, but Trump wrote on Truth Social: "The biggest bridge in Iran comes tumbling down, never to be used again." "Much more to follow! IT IS TIME FOR IRAN TO MAKE A DEAL BEFORE IT IS TOO LATE, AND THERE IS NOTHING LEFT OF WHAT STILL COULD BECOME A GREAT COUNTRY!" he added. The IDF told the BBC it was "not aware" of any strikes on Karaj. Iran has been under internet blackout for 34 days, with connectivity to the outside world at 1% of normal levels on Thursday, according to NetBlocks - making it difficult to verify information from the country. Additional reporting by Ghoncheh Habibiazad The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Warning: this article contains details which some readers may find distressing. Until that moment the war was something happening in other parts of Tehran. It had not touched the lives of "Setareh" and her colleagues. Then she heard an ominous noise and vibrations reached into the office. She called out to her workmates: "I think it's a bomb." They left their desks and climbed the stairs to the roof of the building. "We saw smoke rising into the sky, but we didn't know what place had been targeted," she recalls. "After that, everyone working in the company panicked. People were shouting and screaming and running away. For one to two hours the situation stayed like that complete chaos." That same day her boss shut the business and laid off his staff. Despite strict state censorship, the BBC has been able to use trusted sources on the ground to obtain testimony from a range of Iranians in different parts of the country. We cannot give Setareh's real name or say what kind of work she does - no detail that might possibly identify her to the regime's secret police. But we can say that she is a young woman from Tehran who loved going to work, where she could meet her friends, share stories of their lives and, of course, there was the guarantee of weekly wages. Now the nightly bombing has stolen her ability to sleep naturally. She lies awake worrying about the present, and the future. "I can honestly say I haven't slept for several nights and days in a row. I try to relax by taking very strong painkillers so I can sleep. The anxiety is so intense that it has affected my body. When I think about the future and imagine those conditions, I truly don't know what to do." By "those conditions" she means economic hardship and her fear of future street fighting between the regime and its enemies. The war has cost Setareh her job and she is running out of money. Millions of Iranians are in a similar position. Even before the war, the economy was in deep crisis, with food prices rising by 60% in the previous year. Setareh describes mounting desperation as people run out of resources to survive. "We cannot afford even basic food. What's in our pockets does not match market prices... Iran has also been under sanctions for years, and the problems created by the Islamic Republic means that during this time we couldn't build any savings, at least enough to survive now or depend on something. To put it simply, the people I thought might have money to lend also don't have anything." Economic hardship spurred the huge nationwide protests of late 2025 and early 2026, and Setareh believes it will happen again. "I don't know how this massive wave of unemployment will be handled. There is no support system and the government will do nothing for all these unemployed people. I believe the real war will start if this war ends without any outcome." The outcome she wants is the end of the regime. We received information from sources on the ground in six different cities. These were conversations with individuals from a cross-section of society - shopkeepers, taxi drivers, public sector workers and others. All described growing economic pressure and most spoke of their hope that the war might bring about the fall of the government. "Tina" is a nurse in a hospital outside Tehran and is worried about shortages of medicine. "The shortage is not yet widespread, but it is starting," she says. "The most important issue is that this war must not reach hospitals. If the conflict continues and infrastructure is targeted and medicines cannot be imported, then we will face very serious problems." She is haunted by the images of war that she's witnessed in recent weeks. In the aftermath of bombings, bodies arrived at the hospital "that were not recognisable... some had no hands, some had no legs - it was horrifying". A recurring memory is the pregnant young woman caught in an air strike early in the war. "Because of bombardment in her area - her home was close to a military centre - their house was damaged. When they brought her to the hospital, neither the mother nor the foetus was alive. "Both had died. She had been just two months away from giving birth but sadly neither she nor her baby survived. It was a very terrible situation." It is an image made more poignant by stories from Tina's childhood. Her mother was pregnant with her during the Iran-Iraq war of the 1980s and told her of having to flee to bomb shelters as Iraqi missiles struck their city. Nearly a million people - Iranians and Iraqis, military and civilian - are estimated to have died in the conflict, with Iran suffering the greatest number of casualties. The war's legacy made Tina want to work as a nurse. "Hearing those stories always made me stop and think, to imagine myself in those circumstances and place myself in her situation. Now, I find myself in the same kind of situation my mother once faced. I cannot believe how quickly history repeats itself." Any public show of dissent in Iran is extremely dangerous. The regime has deployed its internal security forces and loyal supporters to patrol the streets. There are arrests, torture and executions. Iranians have no doubt about the danger they face if they speak out. During January's anti-government demonstrations, the regime killed thousands of its own citizens and "Behnam" - a former political prisoner - believes it would easily do the same again. He keeps a supply of antibiotics and painkillers in his flat in case there is renewed street violence. He is still in hiding after being shot during the last protests. Holding up an X-ray of his torso, Behnam shows the metal fragments that remain lodged in his body. "They ambushed us in one of the alleys - the alley leading to the square. They fired bullets and tear gas," he says. "Once you see how easily your life can be threatened - that a simple incident or a twist of fate can mean death or survival - after that, your life no longer holds the same value for you. And that experience makes you care less about yourself." As a child, he listened to his parents' accounts of regime violence. Fear was the defining factor in their lives. There were stories of family members having fingernails pulled out by the Revolutionary Guards. He heard about the humiliation and agony of a male relative who had heavy weights tied to his testicles during torture. "We all grew up knowing someone talented in our family - a cousin, an uncle, an aunt - whose future was destroyed just because another relative had been involved in banned political activity," he says. "I will not heal until the day we are free and in a free world [can] look back on the suffering we endured in an unfree world, and in the end laugh at it. I am certain that day will come." One month into the war, with US President Donald Trump threatening to bomb Iran "back to the stone ages" and regime repression tightening, the time of laughter seems very far away. Additional reporting by Alice Doyard One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The brother of Iranian Nobel Peace Prize winner Narges Mohammadi says he fears her life is in imminent danger after she suffered a suspected heart attack in prison in north-western Iran. Hamidreza Mohammadi, who is based in Norway, told the BBC that the 53-year-old human rights activist was found unconscious in her bed by fellow inmates at Zanjan Prison last week. She was taken to the prison infirmary but officials refused to transfer her to a hospital despite her history of heart and lung problems, he said. She also suffers from severe blood pressure fluctuations. He demanded that she be released immediately for a thorough medical examination. He also warned that strikes and explosions near the prison since the start of the US-Israeli war with Iran a month ago had only added to her stress. "This war has had a terrible effect on prisoners in Iran. If the prison gets hit, if the prisoners need immediate medical attention, they will not get anything and their lives are in danger," he told the BBC's Newsday programme. "It's been really difficult for her family... Her children have gone through a lot. Now they experience a very uncertain time when they don't know even if in the future there will be any peace or if their mother is going to live or die." Narges Mohammadi, the vice-president of the Defenders of Human Rights Center in Iran, was awarded the 2023 Nobel Peace Prize for her activism against female oppression in Iran and promoting human rights. She has spent more than a decade of her life in prison. In 2021, she began serving a 13-year sentence on charges of committing "propaganda activity against the state" and "collusion against state security", which she denied. In December 2024, she was given a temporary release from Tehran's notorious Evin prison on medical grounds. She continued campaigning while undergoing treatment and was arrested in the north-eastern city of Mashhad last December after giving a speech at the memorial ceremony of a fellow human rights activist. Her family said she was taken to hospital after being beaten on the head and neck during the arrest. A few weeks later, protests against Iran's clerical establishment swept across the country. At least 6,508 protesters were killed and 53,000 others arrested in an unprecedented crackdown by security forces on the unrest, according to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA). In early February, Mohammadi was sentenced by a Revolutionary Court in Mashhad to an additional seven-and-a-half years in prison after being convicted of "gathering and collusion" and "propaganda activities", her lawyer said. She was transferred without warning the following week to Zanjan prison and has been allowed only limited communication with her family since then. Last Sunday, her legal team and one family member were allowed to visit her in prison under heightened surveillance. The Free Narges Coalition said in a statement on Tuesday that "her general health was extremely poor, and she appeared pale and weak with significant weight loss when brought to the visitation room by a prison nurse". It then cited Mohammadi's cellmates as saying on 24 March that she had been "found unconscious in her bed with her eyes rolled back" and that this lasted for more than an hour. She was carried to the prison infirmary by fellow inmates, where medication was administered to restore her consciousness, the coalition added. "Despite this medical emergency and evident indications of a heart attack, authorities refused to transfer Mohammadi to a hospital or allow her to visit a specialist." Mohammadi also reported that she had suffered debilitating headaches, nausea and double vision since her violent arrest, and that bruises were still visible on her body, according to the coalition. "According to the Iranian law, in wartime, when they [the authorities] cannot guarantee safety of the prisoners, especially prisoners who are not dangerous to society, they must be allowed to leave the prison until the war is over," Hamidreza Mohammadi said. "But not only [have they not done] it, they have denied all the political prisoners any medical attention, and their excuse is 'it is wartime'. So our demand is that she immediately be released for a thorough medical examination. "We know her medical history, we know that she has heart problems and pulmonary problems. She must be in a hospital." In a separate development on Thursday, the daughter of the prominent Iranian human rights lawyer and Sakharov Prize winner Nasrin Sotoudeh said her mother had been arrested in Tehran. Mehraveh Khandan wrote on Instagram that Sotoudeh, 62, had been detained "last night while she was home alone". When relatives later went to the house, they found "electronic devices, including mum and dad's laptops and phones, had also been confiscated", she said. Khandan added that she had had no contact with her mother since her arrest and that it was unclear which branch of the security forces was holding her. Sotoudeh has been imprisoned several times in connection to her human rights work, which has included representing women arrested for removing their headscarves. In 2018, she was sentenced to 38 years in prison and 148 lashes. She was released on medical grounds in 2021 due to a serious heart problem. Her husband, human rights defender Reza Khandan, has been imprisoned since 2024. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump's prime-time Wednesday evening address on the war with Iran was intended to project control, but it also laid bare a central contradiction. The US president declared Iran's military capabilities - its navy, air force, missile programme and nuclear enrichment infrastructure - largely destroyed, presenting the conflict as nearing its end. Yet he coupled that with threats of further escalation in the coming weeks. The result is a message that cannot quite decide what it is: victory declared, but not secured. The rhetoric sharpened further with his warning that Iran would be bombed "back to the stone ages, where they belong". That remark has had a tangible effect inside Iran, fuelling anger across social media - including among those opposition supporters who had previously viewed Trump as a potential agent of change. Rather than encouraging internal pressure on the system, for some it has reinforced a sense of a country under siege. Trump has also doubled down on the claim that "regime change" has effectively already taken place in Iran with the assassination of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei along with many other top officials and commanders, producing what he called a "less radical and much more reasonable" leadership. There is little evidence to support this. Power in Tehran remains structurally unchanged. Authority still flows from the supreme leader's office, though how much direct control is exercised in practice, particularly under current conditions, is less clear. But there has been no institutional rupture, no ideological shift. Masoud Pezeshkian remains president. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf still leads parliament. Abbas Araghchi continues to shape foreign policy. Commanders and many officials killed in strikes have been replaced by figures from the same ideological ranks who are, if anything, more hardened by wartime conditions. This appears more like regime resilience than regime change. That resilience is not accidental. Iran's war aim is not victory in the conventional sense, but endurance. For years, Tehran has operated on a simple premise: survival against a superior military power constitutes success. In its enduring confrontation with Israel and the US, Tehran has always believed that conflict with one would draw in the other. "Still standing" is not a fallback outcome - it is the objective. One month into the war, the Islamic Republic's command structures still function, its state apparatus holds, and its deterrent, though degraded, is not broken. By that measure, Iran's position remains significant. It retains leverage over critical energy routes, particularly the Strait of Hormuz, through which roughly a fifth of global oil supply passes. That alone gives Tehran disproportionate disruptive capacity, even under sustained attack. For Washington, this creates a dilemma. If the US disengages now, it risks validating Iran's core lesson: endurance works. If it continues, it faces mounting costs with no clear path to decisive victory. Trump's speech reflects that bind. By claiming success while continuing the war, he is attempting to reconcile two competing imperatives: demonstrating strength while avoiding prolonged entanglement. Against this backdrop, Pezeshkian's assertion shortly before Trump's speech that Iran has the "necessary will" to end the war reads as calculated signalling rather than concession. His open letter to the American public, posted on social media on Wednesday, questioned whether "America First" was being served and whether the US was acting as a proxy for Israel. It was aimed squarely at domestic US audiences already uneasy with the conflict - an attempt to widen political pressure in Washington without altering Iran's negotiating position. Iran's red lines for ending the war appear unchanged. They are: So far, there is no sign that Iran is willing to compromise on these demands. That could yet change as the US-Israeli bombing continues. There is no doubt that it is having a significant effect on Iran's military capabilities and on its economy, which was already in freefall before the war began. If the regime survives the war, it will have to rebuild a country reeling from these crises. But survival would have a deeper consequence: deterrence itself. For years, the implicit threat of a large-scale US or Israeli attack acted as a constraint on Iran. If it emerges intact after direct confrontation, the credibility of future threats diminishes. That shift is already shaping regional calculations. Some Arab states, initially opposed to the war, are now reportedly urging Trump to see it through rather than risk leaving behind a more confident Iran. From their perspective, an inconclusive end may prove more destabilising than the conflict itself. They, more than Washington, will bear the consequences, they fear. The US is therefore caught in a familiar but acute dilemma. Leaving risks validating Iran's model of endurance. Staying risks deeper entanglement in a war with no clear endpoint. So far, a new Iran has not emerged. If that is still the case when the war ends, the question will be whether Washington can align its claims of success with a reality in which the adversary it sought to transform remains, fundamentally, the same. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Iran war requires a "serious" approach that does not change every day, Emmanuel Macron has said, in an apparent reference to US President Donald Trump's seemingly contradictory remarks about the conflict. "This is not a show. We are talking about war and peace and the lives of men and women," the French president told journalists upon arrival in South Korea for a state visit. "When you want to be serious you don't say every day the opposite of what you said the day before," Macron added. "And maybe you shouldn't be speaking every day. You should just let things quieten down." Macron was answering questions on the US-Israel war in Iran, which has now entered its second month. France and other European countries have supported some of the US operations in the region, but have so far resisted getting dragged into the war. Trump and his administration have so far offered mixed messages on the conflict, at various times suggesting that a ceasefire was near, that the war had already been won or that the US was going to fight on. Macron also addressed Trump's recent comments in which the US president said he was reconsidering his country's membership of Nato. "Alliances like Nato are valuable because of what is unspoken – meaning the trust behind them," Macron said, arguing that casting doubt on one's commitment to the organisation emptied it of its substance. Partners sign agreements and show up if issues arise, Macron added, "rather than commenting on them every day to say that you will or will not respect them". "I feel like there is too much chatter, it's all over the place," he said. He added he was unwilling to comment on an operation that the US and the Israelis "decided on by themselves", Macron said. "They then lament that they are alone in an operation they decided on alone. It's not our operation." Macron also mentioned the US strikes on Iran in June 2025, which Trump said had "obliterated" Iranian nuclear facilities. However, in the wake of the February 2026 war the US president said it was the "last best chance to strike at Iran's nuclear weapons programme". "I remind you that six months ago we were told that everything had been destroyed and all had been sorted out," Macron noted. He argued that international observers were needed to check the nuclear development situation in Iran, and a framework to prevent further enriching. "You still have today and you'll still have in the future people who have the know-how, hidden laboratories, etc. So it's not targeted military action even lasting a few weeks which can sort out the nuclear problem for good." Trump has been on the offensive against France, which he accuses of failing to help in the war on Iran. At a private lunch on Wednesday, Trump mocked Macron by imitating a French accent and saying that his wife Brigitte "treats him extremely badly" and that Macron was still "recovering from the right to the jaw". Trump was likely referring to a 2025 video which showed Macron being shoved in the face by Brigitte. Macron dismissed the comments as "neither elegant nor up to standard". "I won't respond to them, they don't deserve a reply," he said. The comments on Macron's marriage have been exceptionally badly received in France, where even staunch Macron critics came to his defence. "For Donald Trump to speak to him like that and to speak of his wife in such a manner - I find that absolutely unacceptable," said Manuel Bompard of hard-left France Unbowed party. Tehran has retaliated to the strikes on its territory by closing the Strait of Hormuz, a key waterway which enables the passage of a large proportion of the world's energy supply. In the absence of a quick resolution to the closure, Trump has said the countries most affected by the disruption should solve the problem themselves. Macron pushed back against the idea of a military operation to liberate the strait, saying it was "unrealistic" because it would take too long and be too dangerous. "It would expose anyone crossing the strait to coastal threats from the [Iranian] Revolutionary Guards, who possess significant resources, as well as ballistic missiles, [and] a host of other risks," he said. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump has said in a televised speech that the US military has nearly completed its goals in the Iran war. The US president vowed to strike Iran "extremely hard" over the next two to three weeks and finish the job "very fast", without setting any timeline for ending the conflict. In his primetime address, Trump called for countries that receive oil through the Strait of Hormuz to show "courage" and seize the key waterway, which has been effectively closed by Iranian attacks since the conflict began. The president is grappling with skyrocketing petrol prices and sliding personal popularity ratings as the war continues into its fifth week and US midterm elections loom in November. Wednesday night's speech did little immediately to reassure global oil markets that disruption to the Strait of Hormuz shipping route will ease anytime soon. The price of benchmark Brent crude was trading at about $100 (£76) a barrel before the president started speaking. Afterwards, it rose to $105. In the 20-minute speech from the White House, Trump said the US was "nearing completion" of its "core strategic objectives" in the conflict, and had "decimated" Iran's navy drone and ballistic missile forces. The speech was Trump's first primetime address about the war since it began more than a month ago. "Very shortly, we are going to hit them extremely hard over the next two to three weeks," he said. However, he provided little insight into the state of what he described as "ongoing" discussions with Iran's leadership, leaving open the possibility of hitting Iranian energy infrastructure if negotiations prove fruitless. "If there is no deal, we are going to hit each and every one of their electric generating plants very hard, and probably simultaneously," the US president said. "We have not hit their oil, even though that's the easiest target of all, because it would not give them even a small chance of survival or rebuilding." Earlier in the day, Trump posted on his Truth Social platform that Iran had asked for a ceasefire - a claim that Iran's foreign ministry quickly described as "false and baseless". In his speech on Wednesday night, as he has done several times in recent days, Trump called on US allies to do more to secure shipping lanes through the Strait of Hormuz. He urged them to "build up some delayed courage". "Go to the strait and just take it," he added. Trump made no specific mention of the future of the Nato alliance, after earlier telling the Telegraph newspaper that he'd reconsider the US role in what he described as a "paper tiger". His address to the nation came shortly after it emerged that Nato Secretary General Mark Rutte, who is known as "the Trump whisperer" because of his influence with the president, is planning to visit the White House next week. The president's political opponents were quick to criticise his speech. New York Democrat and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer described the address as "rambling, disjointed and pathetic". "Donald Trump's actions in Iran will be considered one of the greatest policy blunders in the history of our country, failing to articulate objectives, alienating allies, and ignoring the kitchen table problems Americans are facing," Schumer wrote on X. "He is completely unfit to be commander-in-chief and the whole world knows it." Senator Lindsey Graham, a Republican from South Carolina and a Trump loyalist, told Fox News that the president's speech was a defining moment for the war and said Iran had to make a deal with Trump, or "we're going to blow your stuff up". "[Trump] defined the end state, he set the objectives early on, we're inside the 10-yard line and he's telling Iran how this movie ends," he said. US forces have struck more than 12,300 targets across Iran since Operation Epic Fury began, including Iranian naval vessels and facilities, missile launchers and defence manufacturing plants, according to an update from US Central Command on Wednesday. But despite his claims of victory, Iranian attacks across the region continued on Wednesday, with authorities in both the United Arab Emirates and Qatar responding to missile and drone strikes. In separate incidents, British troops said they brought down 10 Iranian drones in countries including Jordan, Bahrain and Cyprus. A ReutersIpsos poll last week suggested that two-thirds of Americans believe the US should end the war quickly, even if it means not achieving Trump's goals. In the survey, 60% of respondents disapproved of the military strikes on Iran, while 35% approved. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump's address from the White House on Wednesday evening was - despite some speculation beforehand - largely a rehash of what he has been saying for days about the Iran war. In a 20-minute primetime speech, he said the "core strategic objectives" of the US-Israeli military operation were "nearing completion" after a month of war and projected it would last another two to three weeks. There were the usual threats against Iran, too, including a repeated pledge to bomb the country "back to the Stone Age". If you were to copy and paste his posts on Truth Social over the last week or so, you would not be far off this address to the nation. The president did attempt to persuade Americans of the merits of this war. There is good reason for that, as polls suggest a consistent majority of voters disapprove of the military operation he launched on 28 February. Trump urged Americans to see this war as an "investment" in their future, and suggested it was nothing compared to other conflicts over the past century or more in which the US has ended up being involved for far longer. But there was little here for those hoping for clear answers on where this war is heading or potential exit ramps for the US. There were glaring omissions which leave a plethora of questions unanswered. Firstly, Israel is still attacking Iran and taking incoming drone and missile attacks – including earlier on Wednesday in Tel Aviv just hours before the beginning of Passover. A key question is whether Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's government agrees with the timetable of a few more weeks that was provided by Trump. We simply do not know at this point in time. Secondly, what happened to the 15-point peace plan the White House was urging Iran to accept just days ago? There was no mention of it by Trump on Wednesday night. Is Washington now ditching many of those demands, including the retrieval of its stockpile of enriched uranium? The reopening of the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world's busiest oil shipping channels, which has been effectively closed off by Iran, is a central issue in this conflict. The president, however, does not appear to have a settled view on it. One moment he is demanding Iran allow tankers through, and the next he is telling allies to go and sort it out for themselves. "Go to the strait and just take it, protect it, use it for yourselves," he said on Wednesday. "The hard part is done, so it should be easy." He then simply said, without expanding further, that the strait would reopen "naturally" when the war was over. That is unlikely to reassure those concerned about oil prices. Trump's pointed criticism of some allies - he said at one point that they should "build up some delayed courage" and lead an operation to reopen the strait - came after he floated the idea of pulling out of the Nato military alliance in an interview earlier on Wednesday. But that rhetoric was completely absent from this speech, despite briefings suggesting it would be a key part of his words tonight. Another key unanswered question relates to ground troops. What are the thousands of marines and paratroopers actually going to be doing in the region as they continue to arrive? The truth is that after this national address, we are really none the wiser about what the president sees as victory in this war. And given the often conflicting nature of his statements from one day to the next, everything could change at any time. Meanwhile, the average price of gas in the US has topped $4 (£3) for the first time in nearly four years and the president's approval ratings are cratering, just months before the crucial midterm elections that will determine control of Congress. This is a US president looking for a way out of this war – and he is still casting about to find one. Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The chatter in Delhi is unmistakable: as Pakistan positions itself as an intermediary in the US-Iran crisis, is India being sidelined? Islamabad has moved with unusual agility, casting itself as an intermediary between Washington and Tehran. Last week, it reportedly relayed a 15-point US peace plan to Iran and offered to host talks - an offer Tehran rejected. This week, Pakistan took the lead again, with its foreign minister flying to Beijing to seek Chinese backing for a five-point peace plan to end the conflict. For India, Pakistan's larger neighbour and arch rival, the optics are awkward. The unease is sharpened by a more uneven phase in India's ties with the US, even as Pakistan appears to be rebuilding channels with President Donald Trump. That, in turn, has sparked a familiar divide within India's strategic community. Some opposition parties and analysts argue that Delhi, with its own cross-cutting ties in the region, should at least have explored a mediatory role - lest it appear absent at a moment of geopolitical flux. The opposition Congress party has attacked the government, calling it an "embarrassment" for Indian diplomacy after reports of Pakistan being tapped as a mediator. "By being more agile and aggressive in the 'war of narratives', Pakistan has often outmanoeuvred India diplomatically," strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney wrote on X. Others see little value in such visibility for its own sake, cautioning that mediation without leverage or invitation can backfire. They believe India's interests are better served by quiet diplomacy and strategic distance. That view finds echo in the government. In an all-party meeting last week, Indian External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar reportedly dismissed Pakistan's role as "dalali" (brokerage), noting it has played such a part since 1981, including in US-Taliban talks. "We don't run around asking countries what kind of brokerage we can do," he is reported to have said. But for some analysts, the intensity of the debate in Delhi says as much about perception as policy. At its core, argues Happymon Jacob of Shiv Nadar University, the issue is not strategy so much as psychology. "The response in India has been one of competitive anxiety: if Pakistan can, why not us!," he noted in an op-edit. "At best, that is a fear of missing out. At worst, it's jealousy of a smaller neighbour attracting the kind of attention some in our strategic community believe India deserves. But neither the fear of missing out nor jealousy is a sound basis for good foreign policy." Michael Kugelman, a senior fellow for South Asia at the Atlantic Council, also pushes back on the "zero-sum approach of India-Pakistan rivalry", arguing India was never really in the running to mediate and is unlikely to step in without a formal invite. Pakistan's diplomatic burst, he suggests, may be short-lived and limited to a go-between role, with mistrust making direct US-Iran talks unlikely anytime soon. As he puts it, "this misrepresents the state of play". If India was never really in the mediation race, the more relevant question, many say, is what role it should play instead. For Ajay Bisaria, former Indian high commissioner to Pakistan, the answer lies in recognising both India's strengths and its constraints. While India has peacemaking potential, given its stakes and relationships across the region, it is not a tool that can be "directed" by Washington, he says. "That makes India unsuitable for this role," Bisaria adds, arguing that Delhi should pursue a more substantive peace-promoting role - but "not in the manner of Pakistan and not at the current stage". Between these positions lies a more pragmatic middle ground: India need not insert itself into high-risk mediation, but it cannot afford to be passive either. "This war has damaged India's interests in almost every practical sense... The deeper question is whether India is willing to say so with sufficient clarity," former Indian foreign secretary Nirupama Rao wrote on X. At home, that restraint has drawn criticism. Opposition leaders have accused the Narendra Modi government of a conspicuous silence on Israel's actions in Gaza and strikes on Iran, arguing it signals an increasingly pro-Israel tilt and a break from India's traditional diplomatic balance. "Restraint has its place. Calibration is necessary. But when fundamental questions arise - about sovereignty, about the limits of force, about the protection of civilians - India cannot afford to be silent," Rao says. Bisaria believes India also needs to think beyond headline diplomacy. India is a stakeholder in both peace and conflict, he says - wars disrupt its central objective of sustained economic growth. Rather than chasing a mediatory role, he adds, Delhi should invest in the less visible mechanics of peacemaking, building specialist capacity to handle "the nuts and bolts" - from hostage swaps and back-channel military contacts to negotiating safe passage through chokepoints like the Strait of Hormuz - in the long run. Set against this debate about India's role is a parallel question: why has Washington turned to Islamabad at all? Part of the answer lies in geography and networks. As Ejaz Haider, a Lahore-based defence analyst, says, Pakistan is "the only country in the Muslim bloc" that maintains working ties with both Iran and the Gulf monarchies - giving it a rare ability to shuttle messages across a fractured region. More consequential is the harder edge of Pakistan's leverage. Umer Farooq, an Islamabad-based analyst and a former correspondent of Jane's Defence Weekly, argues Pakistan's diplomatic relevance rests on its security role in the Gulf. Saudi Arabia and its neighbours, ringed by Iranian-backed militias - from Yemen to Iraq and Lebanon - see Pakistani land forces as a credible buffer, Farooq says. "Our diplomatic importance is based on this leverage," he says - offering not just access, but a form of coercive reassurance that India lacks in this theatre. That mix of access and leverage, however, is only part of the story. Avinash Paliwal, who teaches politics and international studies at SOAS University of London, says Pakistan's mediation push reflects hard compulsion, not diplomatic theatre. "Unlike India, Pakistan does not have the luxury to sit this war out. If it escalates, Pakistan will be forced to enter the war on Saudi Arabia's side. The true choice Islamabad faces, then, is to either succeed at de-escalation or join a costly war," he says. Nor does the oft-cited lack of leverage in Iran, the US or Israel invalidate the effort, according to Paliwal. "No country has such leverage… India included," he says. "Even if Islamabad fails to muster a ceasefire, these efforts have buttressed its credibility as a sincere player with 'skin in the game'. Pakistan is sending a signal to all those countries witnessing this war with horror that it is willing to risk its limited equities to prevent escalation." It is precisely this signalling - and the visibility that comes with it - that tends to raise hackles in Delhi. Expectations of India's global role have been elevated in recent years, both by its growing economic weight and by official rhetoric projecting it as a leading voice on the world stage. As Modi's government has framed India's rise in expansive terms, projecting it as a leading voice for the Global South and a bridge across geopolitical divides, the temptation to be present in every global crisis has grown. But that ambition, Jacob says, needs tempering. "India has demonstrated leadership on climate and energy; it need not - and cannot - do everything." "The real challenge is managing the gap between capability and expectation - and having the wisdom to know what to do, and just as importantly, what not to." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
On the highway from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, American flags now hang alongside Israeli ones – a public sign of appreciation for US involvement in fighting Iran. "We used to beg American administrations only to recognise a Credible Military Threat [from Iran]," said Israel's former National Security Advisor, Tzachi Hangebi, who left office four months before this war began. "The fact that both Israel and the US are working day in, day out to diminish the capabilities of Iran, that's beyond my most utopian fantasies." America's decision to jointly wage war on Iran opened-up possibilities for Israel to attack its old enemy in new ways – officials here talk of dividing up targets with their US counterparts according to their respective capabilities. But this war has so far not resolved any of Israel's regional conflicts in the way its prime minister suggested it would. As US president Donald Trump talks of winding up the joint offensive in Iran, Israeli forces are still holding territory in Gaza and Syria, with new instructions from their defence minister to take a large swathe of southern Lebanon as a "buffer zone" against Iran's ally Hezbollah. Some 600,000 people living inside this new 'security zone' have been told they will not be allowed back to their homes until Israel deems its northern communities safe from Hezbollah attacks.  Mr Katz has ordered the destruction of all houses in Lebanese villages near the border, in the same way his forces razed communities in Gaza. Tzachi Hanegbi says Israel will continue its direct confrontation with regional enemies like Hezbollah, even if Washington forces an end to military action in Iran. "Donald Trump might make a decision that there are no more [Iranian] targets relevant to the nuclear capabilities, and that he would like some kind of ceasefire, and whatever he will do, we will accept," Hangebi told me. "[But] we'll go forward in Lebanon. We'll keep on doing it, and I'm sure America won't tell us, 'No'." More than 1,200 people have been killed in Lebanon since the start of Israel's most recent campaign, according to Lebanon's Health Ministry. And Iran's government says almost 2,000 people have been killed by US-Israeli attacks there since the war in Iran began. Israel's military strategy in the region changed after the Hamas attacks on 7 October 2023, from a policy of 'containing' its enemies with occasional operations, to one of pre-empting attacks. That shift has pulled Israel into direct confrontation with Iran, but also led to a policy of creating so-called 'buffer zones' in Gaza, Syria and Lebanon – wide areas of territory that Israel has seized from its neighbours for what it terms security reasons; the result of a repeated failure to turn military might into sustainable peace. On Tuesday, just before the Jewish holiday of Passover, Prime Minister Netanyahu said Israel had inflicted 10 "plagues" on the regime in Tehran, including the establishment of "deep security belts beyond our borders – in Gaza, Syria and Lebanon". "The buffer zone approach is seen as an insurance policy that gives Israel flexibility and buys it time, linked to the wider change in Israel's security doctrine since the 7 Oct attacks," said Burcu Ozcelik, a specialist in Middle East strategy at UK's Royal United Services Institute (Rusi). But, she says, there are political fractures within Israel over the purpose of this approach. "Some think the buffer zones will eventually lead to permanent occupation or the expansion of Israel's borders – an ideological point of view, long championed by the far-right," she said. "More pragmatic voices argue that what's happening now in Lebanon, Gaza and Syria is a security-driven approach that may be removed once Israel feels safer." For the past two and a half years, Benjamin Netanyahu has led his country in a continuous rolling conflict with Iran and its allies around the region, each time promising that the next war would restore Israel's security and vanquish its enemies. Just nine months ago, after Israel's last war on Iran, Netanyahu told his nation they had achieved "a historic victory that will stand for generations", removing the "existential threats" from Iran's nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles. Despite the rhetoric of imminent victory accompanying every fresh conflict, the reality for many Israelis is a new state of 'perma-war'. "The grandiose promises of destroying Hezbollah and Hamas and Iran are not coming true," said Dahlia Scheindlin, a political analyst in Israel. And Netanyahu's promise that the war on Iran will lead to new regional alliances for Israel hasn't materialised either, she says, leaving Arab States – including current or potential Israeli allies – worried. "It never happens because Israel is behaving like an unpredictable warmongering actor that might snatch territory," Scheindlin said. "Israel's attack on Iran and Lebanon, and its encroachment into Gaza, Lebanon and Syria, is creating incredible anxiety that Israel is not a good ally in their shared concern about Iran, but that it is a dangerous ally." Israel's security has been a political mantra for Benjamin Netanyahu during his decades in office.  In the early days of the war in Iran, he said Israel had already changed the Middle East, and its own power within it, but more than a month into the campaign the regime in Tehran is still in power, still firing missiles at Israel, and still in possession of its stockpile of highly-enriched uranium – enough, experts say, to make around a dozen nuclear bombs if further refined. Support for the war among Jewish Israelis was initially estimated at above 90%, in a poll by the Israel Democracy Institute.  Since then, it has dropped by almost 20 points, but the prime minister still enjoys majority backing for the war – even though surveys suggest support for him and his party in the upcoming elections has barely moved. "The problem is that no political opposition leader is saying something totally different: advancing diplomacy; strengthening states in the region; working more closely with Arab states; solving the Palestinian issue – nobody is offering that," said Dahlia Scheindlin. Tzachi Hanegbi points out that, while America can negotiate with Iran, Israel's only option is military. "We cannot reach an agreement with Iran about anything, because they don't recognise our very existence. We only have dialogue through missiles, or whatever they do, and we do." Israel did agree to earlier ceasefire deals in Lebanon and Gaza, but kept striking specific targets in both. Hezbollah's decision last month to join the war alongside Iran sparked Israel's return to full conflict there, while Gaza remains stuck in limbo, its progress towards stability and reconstruction blocked by a dispute over how and when Hamas must disarm and Israeli forces withdraw. Maintaining a military presence on several fronts, alongside a full-blown war in Iran and spiralling violence in the occupied West Bank, is taking its toll on Israel's population. Its conscript army means most Israeli families are directly exposed to the risks of ongoing war, and its widening military footprint in the region has put hundreds of thousands of reservists on call-up lists.  Some reservists have already served five or more tours since the 2023 Hamas attacks, and there are anecdotal reports that some are refusing to serve again. The defence budget has now risen to more than $45 billion, and there's little appetite among Israelis for endless war, but without a resolution to conflicts that are seen as existential, Israel's defence policies continue to demand money, men and munitions. The war in Iran was framed as a chance to tackle Israel's existential threats. But the lessons from Israel's other wars suggest military might alone may not be enough. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Rachel Reeves said she is "angry" that US President Donald Trump chose to go to war with Iran, adding there is no "clear" exit strategy. The chancellor said the decision is "causing real hardship for people now", with higher inflation, weaker economic growth and lower tax receipts among the potential consequences. Relations between the US and the UK have become increasingly strained following Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer's refusal to be drawn further into the war with Iran. The direct criticism of Trump by Reeves went further than Sir Keir, who earlier on Wednesday said he would not change his decision "whatever the pressure". Trump has repeatedly criticised Sir Keir in recent weeks after the PM refused to allow the US to use UK bases for its initial offensive strikes against Iran. Sir Keir later gave permission for them to be used for defensive action against Iranian missile strikes, but this has not stopped Trump's critical remarks. Speaking to BBC Radio 2's Jeremy Vine show, Reeves said: "I'm angry that Donald Trump has chosen to go to war in the Middle East – a war that there's not a clear plan of how to get out of. It's why we didn't want to enter this." Reeves said the government is monitoring the situation closely and "trying to bring the oil and gas into the UK so that those supplies are there and to try and get the prices down". She also defended the government's response to cost of living pressures, with opposition parties asking for more details on how to protect people from rising energy costs. The Conservatives and Reform UK both want VAT to be taken off household energy bills, while arguing a planned hike in fuel duty from September should be cancelled. The Liberal Democrats are also calling for the increase not to go ahead, while the Greens say the government should commit billions of pounds now to subsidise energy bills from July, when the price cap is recalculated. Plaid Cymru said the government should set out now what support would be available if energy bills rise, while the SNP argues Holyrood should control energy policy. The tax rate on petrol and diesel is due to rise from September, when a 5p cut made after Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine is set to be phased out over six months. Reeves and Environment Secretary Emma Reynolds also met supermarket bosses on Wednesday to discuss how they can work together to "ease the cost of living for consumers and strengthen supply chains", according to a government spokesperson. Helen Dickinson, chief executive at the British Retail Consortium, described the talks as "constructive". She said: "Supermarkets are doing everything they can to keep food prices affordable and maintain the ongoing resilience of their supply chains." Sir Keir earlier used a press conference to say the UK would pursue closer economic ties with the European Union as a result of the US-Israel conflict with Iran. He said: "It is increasingly clear that as the world continues down this volatile path, our long-term national interest requires closer partnership with our allies in Europe and with the European Union." Conservative shadow chancellor Mel Stride said Britain is "weaker" because of choices made by Reeves and Energy Secretary Ed Miliband. He said: "Tax hikes and Labour's net zero obsession are driving up costs and hitting families in the pocket." Reform UK's treasury spokesman Robert Jenrick said Sir Keir was "using the war in Iran and his inaction on the cost of living as a guise to take us back into the single market". He claimed this had been Sir Keir's "plan all along", and he was now "trying to do it by the back door". Plaid Cymru's Heledd Fychan said it was "unclear" what support will come from the UK government. Fychan said "Brexit was a disaster for the UK" and welcomed Sir Keir's talk about the need for closer links with Europe, adding: "It's about time we saw that progress." On Thursday, Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper will host a virtual meeting of 35 nations - including European and Gulf countries - to discuss possible measures to reopen the Strait of Hormuz after the fighting has stopped. Iran has effectively blocked the strait - one of the world's busiest oil shipping channels - leading to soaring wholesale oil and gas prices. A sustained rise in the price of oil is likely to lead to a jump in household energy bills in the UK, when the current cap is reset in July. Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to keep up with the inner workings of Westminster and beyond. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Across the world on Wednesday night, millions of people will tune in to watch Donald Trump deliver a primetime update on the war in Iran. Many will hope for some insight on how the war ends and what might come after. The Trump administration has signalled there may be no big announcement, but many are wondering if his hastily arranged remarks will mark the beginning of the end of the conflict or a potentially bloody escalation. This ambiguity is, at least partly, by design. Trump often changes course or leaves his thinking a mystery to all but a small inner circle of supporters, which he has acknowledged leaves friend and foe alike wondering about his next move. He also knows the address comes at a critical time in his presidency and amid mounting domestic pressure to find a way out of the conflict. Poll after poll has shown that Americans have little appetite for a protracted conflict in Iran, particularly if it involves the prospect of US soldiers on Iranian soil. A Reuters poll released this week, for example, found that two-thirds of Americans believe the US should work to swiftly wrap up its involvement in the war, even if the administration's stated military objectives are not fully accomplished. Closer to home, many Americans are increasingly wary of higher prices at the petrol pump, which this week crossed the average of $4 a gallon for the first time in years. For a president who, pre-war, often pointed to lower petrol prices as a mark of success, this trend represents a challenge. Imran Bayoumi, a geostrategy expert with the Atlantic Council in Washington DC and former policy adviser to the defence department, told the BBC that the "deep domestic unpopularity" of the war, along with the economic fall-out, "both pose a problem ahead of midterm elections" if the conflict were to drag on. The US president will also likely present his view on how the conflict - or at least US involvement in it - will come to a close. This has shifted repeatedly, from initial calls for an "unconditional" Iranian surrender to a potential negotiated agreement. Just yesterday, he abruptly shifted course, saying that the war could end in "two to three" weeks, even without any deal. This morning, he again seemed to shift, posting on Truth Social that Iran's "much less radicalised" president had asked the US for a ceasefire, but that the US would not consider it until the Strait of Hormuz is open. Until then, Trump promised, the US will be "blasting Iran into oblivion, or as they say, back to the Stone Ages". According to a White House official, the speech will mostly focus on military successes of the operation, such as degrading Iran's navy, missile capabilities and nuclear programme. Trump is expected to reiterate that he believes the operation will be over in two or three weeks. It is unclear, however, what any US exit from the conflict will look like. According to Bayoumi, what constitutes victory for Trump is "loosely defined", which provides the president with some flexibility. "Not having clearly defined goals going into the conflict allows Trump to declare victory at any time," he said. "[He] has mentioned that he's halted the nuclear threat from Iran, but it's not clear he actually has." While on a tactical level the US-Israeli operation has been successful in severely degrading Iran's military, Trump's assertion that the war is winding down soon leaves a very narrow window for more complex military options, such as seizing control of Iran's highly enriched uranium or opening the Strait. On the latter point, we are likely to hear the president dismiss the Nato alliance as one that he believes has proven itself unwilling to help advance US interests. What he says tonight will be carefully scrutinised by US allies and adversaries, some of whom will wonder whether it constitutes a ruse. In Tehran, the country's remaining leadership will remember that Trump had publicly endorsed negotiations he said were ongoing and positive nearly until the moment US bombers struck Iranian nuclear facilities during Operation Midnight Hammer. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Of all the warnings in President Trump's arsenal, quitting the Nato military alliance is among those he's wielded the most. Asked by Britain's Telegraph newspaper if he is reconsidering US membership of Nato, he said: "Oh yes… I would say [it's] beyond reconsideration" – fuming again that his partners weren't joining America's military operations, alongside Israel, against Iran. "I just think it should be automatic," he emphasised in his remarks to the paper. Trump's invective underlines again his misunderstanding of how this 32-member alliance works. Nato's Article 5 does commit it to collective defence. An attack against one member is deemed to be an attack against all but invoking this principle requires a consensus. And the 1949 treaty only referred to crises in Europe and North America. One ally after another has held back from joining a war they weren't consulted on, given they still don't understand its goals in the face of mixed messaging from the Trump administration. Article 5 has only been triggered once, in the wake of the September 11th attacks on the US in 2001. Trump also referenced Ukraine in the Telegraph, saying: "We've been there automatically, including Ukraine." After Russia's audacious full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, the then-US President Joe Biden did take a leading role in shaping the response of individual Western governments because he believed President Putin's actions threatened them all. Nato, as an alliance, provided assistance but avoided the dangerous prospect of becoming directly involved as a party to this conflict. Even before Trump entered the White House in 2017,  he repeatedly dismissed Nato as a "paper tiger," described it as "obsolete", and said that it was "costing a fortune" for the US. This year, he's mocked the alliance, saying Russia would have occupied all of Ukraine if the US had not been Nato's enforcer. Trump almost walked out in early 2019, during his first term in office. "We saw clear signs that Trump was preparing to act on his threat," the former Nato Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg wrote in his recent memoir, On my Watch. Stoltenberg recounted how he went on Fox News and credited Trump with pressuring Nato allies to increase their military spending. In his telling, Trump immediately acknowledged that praise on social media and then didn't make the speech the White House had reportedly drafted for a US pullout. At the centre of Trump's concerns was the 2014 agreement that countries should spend 2% of their GDP on defence; at the time, it was only described as a "guideline". Military spending has ramped up significantly by almost all Nato members, partly in response to Trump's threats, partly because of Russia's growing menace. This new crisis will again strengthen the resolve of European countries and Canada to bolster their own defences and depend on themselves for their own security. But there's still that cold hard fact that the might of the US military matters - immensely. The US's military budget  now makes up some 62% percent of Nato's total defence spending and the Pentagon has assets and intelligence capabilities others still can't match. This time, his Secretary of State Marco Rubio, who calls himself a former supporter of the alliance, has also chimed in. "I think there's no doubt, unfortunately, after this conflict is concluded we are going to have to re-examine that relationship," he told Fox News. Referring to US bases in Europe he said not using them "to defend America's interests" meant "Nato is a one-way street." Britain initially refused access to US warplanes but later changed tack, saying bases could be used for "defensive operations." That delay continues to be derided by Trump and his secretary of defence, the self-styled Secretary of War, Pete Hegseth. They've repeatedly taunted Prime Minister Starmer as being "no Churchill" – a reference to Britain's leader during the Second World War. On Tuesday, Italy denied US aircraft permission to land as they were en route to the Middle East for combat operations. Spain has closed its airspace to US planes conducting missions against Iran. Rubio added it was "ultimately" up to the President to decide this issue. The US Congress voted at the end of 2023 to prohibit the president from unilaterally withdrawing from Nato without the approval of a two-thirds Senate majority or an act of Congress. Nato leaders, and most of all its current secretary general Mark Rutte who visits Washington next week,  will need to spend time again trying to convince and cajole Trump that it's in his interest, and America's, to stay. Rutte, like Stoltenberg, is called the "Trump whisperer" for his efforts in public, and private, to keep the unpredictable president on side. Rutte, the former Dutch leader armed with his toolbox of praise, is widely seen as having played a significant role in pulling Trump back from the brink in his threats to "take" Greenland – a semi-autonomous territory of fellow Nato member Denmark - earlier this year. But Rutte has also come under fire from other Nato states for going too far with his staunch support for a war against Iran he said Trump was doing "to make the whole world safe." But his top priority is keeping his 77-year-old coalition intact as it confronts growing threats in Ukraine, the Middle East – and the White House. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. A former US marine tells the BBC the priority of any recovery team would be to look for signs of life. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Trump has said that US military action in Iran could end as soon as "two or three weeks" - with or without a deal brokered between the two sides. The US has achieved its goals in the country, Trump said, primarily that of curtailing Iran's ability to obtain a nuclear weapon – and the US was now "finishing the job". Iran's president, Masoud Pezeshkian, said Tehran has the "necessary will" to end the war, provided certain conditions were met, according to Iranian state media. This is not the first time during the month-long war, started when the US and Israel attacked Iran on 28 February, that Trump has said there would be an imminent end to the conflict. The US will "leave" Iran "very soon", Trump said on Tuesday. "We're finishing the job, and I think within maybe two weeks, maybe a couple of days longer, to do the job." He said there "could be a deal" between Washington and Tehran before then, but added "it doesn't matter if they come to the table or not". "We've set them back 15-20 years. They have no navy, no military, no air force." Once the US was sure Iran would not be able to "come up with a nuclear weapon", then it would leave with or without a deal in place, Trump said. "It's irrelevant now, it's possible that we'll have a deal because they want to make a deal," he added. His comments came ahead of a presidential address to the nation at 21:00 ET on Wednesday (02:00 BST on Thursday), to provide what White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said was an "important update on Iran". Some hours before the speech, Trump said in a post on Truth Social that "Iran's New Regime President" had asked the US for a ceasefire, without mentioning the official by name. Tehran's foreign ministry called the president's claim "false and baseless", according to Iranian state TV. Also on Tuesday, US Secretary of State Marco Rubio had said the end of the war was in sight, with "talks going on". He told Fox News: "There is the potential for direct meeting at some point. We're always going to be open for that." However, he said that Trump would not allow "fake negotiations to be used as a delay tactic to buy more time". Iranian president Pezeshkian said his country would need guarantees "required to prevent repetition of the aggression" in order for the conflict to end. His remarks, made in conversation with European Council President António Costa, were originally reported by Iranian state media. Following the conversation, Costa wrote on X: "To de-escalate the situation, I urged Iran to stop the unacceptable attacks on countries in the region and to engage positively on the diplomatic track, notably with the UN to ensure the freedom of navigation in the Strait of Hormuz." Strikes from both sides continued across the region throughout Tuesday and into the night, with US Central Command releasing a video showing its forces dropping what it called precision munitions on underground military targets in Iran. Israel said it attacked an Iranian factory, which Israel claims was involved in the production of chemical weapons. Iran said the site was making medicines. Also overnight, Lebanon's capital Beirut was hit by heavy Israeli airstrikes. Israel's military says it struck a commander and another senior figure from the armed group Hezbollah, which is supporting Iran in the war. The Gulf, which has come under Iranian attacks because of the presence of US military bases, also continued to be targeted. Saudi Arabia said it had intercepted two drones, while a tanker off the coast of Qatar was hit by a missile. Bahrain was also attacked, and a fire broke out at Kuwait's International Airport following drone hits. On Wednesday morning, the Israeli military said it had detected a new wave of projectiles fired from Iran toward Israel. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
As the war in the Middle East enters its second month, choking the world's energy supply and sending oil prices soaring, China is trying to step in as a peacemaker. It comes as President Donald Trump says US military action in Iran could end in "two to three weeks", but there is no clear sense yet of how that will happen or what comes after. China joins Pakistan, which has emerged as an unlikely mediator in the US-Israel war against Iran. Officials in Beijing and Islamabad have presented a five-point plan with the aim of bringing about a ceasefire and re-opening the vital Strait of Hormuz. Pakistan, which has been a US ally in the past, seems to have won over Trump to mediate this conflict. Beijing, however, is entering the fray as a rival to Washington, ahead of crucial trade talks between Chinese leader Xi Jinping and Trump next month. China's backing on this is "very important," says Zhu Yongbiao, a Middle East expert and director of the Centre for Afghanistan Studies at Lanzhou University. "Morally, politically and diplomatically, China is providing comprehensive support with the hope that Pakistan can play a more distinctive role." It is also a turnaround for Beijing, whose official response to the war has so far been quite muted. So why is China stepping in now? The peace plan was drafted after Pakistan's foreign minister flew to Beijing to ask for Chinese support for the country's efforts to negotiate an end to this conflict. His efforts appear to have worked. China's Foreign Ministry said the two were making "new efforts towards advocating for peace." The joint statement agreed that dialogue and diplomacy were "the only viable option to resolve conflicts", and it called for waterways, including the blockaded strait, to be protected. It's not just about oil, although that will be a concern. China, the biggest importer of crude oil in the world, has enough stockpiled to get it through the next few months. Beijing will likely have decided to play the role of peacemaker because the war in Iran jeopardises something Xi covets: stability. China needs a stable global economy as it is heavily reliant on selling goods around the world as it tries to revive an ailing domestic economy. "If the rest of the world begins to slow down economically because of an energy shock, that's going to be tough for China's factories and exporters," says Matt Pottinger, Chairman of the Foundation for Defense of Democracy's China Program. "That's why I think when I see China's foreign minister just this week advising Iran that we need to find a way to end this war, I think there's some sincerity there. I think that Beijing is a little bit worried about where this could lead if it turns into a real energy shock that is protracted." There are already fears that China's industrial heartland, which serves as the factory of the world, will be impacted in the long term if this crisis continues. Paying a higher price for oil affects the whole supply chain, from the plastics needed to make toys and games, to the raw materials for modern synthetic fabrics, to the hundreds of components that go into phones, electric cars and semiconductors. The US trade war with China during Trump's first term led many business owners across the country to look for new markets around the world. As a result, China's exports to the Middle East grew nearly twice as fast as its exports to the rest of the world last year. The region has become the fastest growing market for electric cars, and China is also the largest investor in desalination in the Middle East, where potable water is scarce. The Power Construction Corporation of China has projects in Saudi Arabia, the Emirates, Oman and Iraq. As a result of its economic ties, China has cultivated relationships across the region with both US allies, such as Saudi Arabia, and foes, such as Iran. Tehran and Beijing have a partnership dating back decades. China is Iran's leading trade partner and it buys around 80% of Iranian oil. The Chinese government has played the role of peacemaker in the Middle East before, with limited success. In 2023 it brokered a deal between bitter rivals Saudi Arabia and Iran, which have long stood on opposing sides in proxy wars in the Middle East. They severed ties in 2016 when Saudi Arabia executed a prominent Shia Muslim scholar, triggering protests in Iran with crowds attacking its embassy in Tehran. After China took up the mantel as mediator, the two sides agreed to re-establish diplomatic relations. This was in China's interest. Beijing will have hoped that better diplomatic relations between Saudi Arabia and Iran would reduce the likelihood for regional tensions. A year later, Beijing played host to the leaders of 14 Palestinian factions, including Fatah and Hamas. The talks resulted in a national unity government for the occupied West Bank and Gaza. The declaration was more an expression of intent rather than a comprehensive agreement, but once again, it highlighted the role China can play in the region, and its interest in stability in the Middle East. China's partnerships across the world come with no security guarantees or military backing. For Beijing, its economy comes first - and it is this economic interdependence with countries across the region which gives it leverage and helps it project some influence. "China is cautious about being drawn into broader conflicts," says Zhu. "Its priority, both domestically and in foreign policy, is economic development. There is a broad consensus that China shouldn't recklessly get involved in a war." But this approach has its limits. China doesn't have the military capabilities in the region to step in even if it wished to do so. The US has bases in each of the Gulf states. China's closest base is in Djibouti in East Africa and was only established in 2017. It is a logistics hub for anti-piracy operations rather than a base for projecting power. During the Israel-Iran war in 2025, China stayed on the sidelines and offered minimal support revealing the limitations of its role as a partner. As for this latest peace plan, both the US and Iran have yet to respond, but pushing forward this initiative allows Xi to play the role of neutral broker and peacemaker - and once again stand in contrast to the leader of the other major superpower, the US. Beijing's credibility to portray itself as a pragmatic international player comes with plenty of caveats. Its alignment with Russia has consistently sparked questions about its neutrality. Its increasing control of Hong Kong and its repeated threats to take self-governed Taiwan by force if required are still huge concerns. And China's authoritarian leaders avoid any discussion about human rights, and never condemn regimes for rights abuses or misuse of power. All of this makes it President Xi an unlikely spokesperson for a global rules-based order. But China is a powerful global player driven by strategic interests. It has shown it has some influence in the Middle East, and it certainly has ambitions to gain more leverage in the future. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Eight Indian seafarers who were detained in Iran in December have returned home after weeks of delay caused by the war in the Middle East. The men were part of an 18-member crew - 16 Indians and one each from Sri Lanka and Bangladesh - on a ship seized by Iranian authorities who alleged they were smuggling fuel. The company operating the ship denied this. Eight crew members returned to India on 10 February. The remaining eight Indians reached home on Sunday after an arduous journey that involved travelling via land to Armenia and then taking a flight via Dubai. The crew members from Sri Lanka and Bangladesh also flew back to their countries from Armenia. The ship, MT Valiant Roar, operated by Dubai-based Prime Tankers LLC, was seized on 8 December while it was in international waters. Some of the crew members were taken to a jail in Iran's Bandar Abbas port city, while the others were detained on the vessel. In January, their families approached a court in India, seeking government intervention, following which India's foreign ministry said it had secured consular access to them. Eight men returned to India on 10 February, but the others, including five Indians in jail, received their release order only on 27 February. A day later, the US and Israel began military strikes on Iran, prompting it to retaliate. Flights and border crossings across the region were disrupted. "The joy of the release order did not last even a few hours," Vijay Kumar, the ship's captain, said as he recalled the ordeal. Though Iranian authorities returned their passports, the security situation forced the sailors to stay put on the ship in Bandar Abbas. Kumar said the ship was docked close to an Iranian naval facility, placing them uncomfortably close to potential targets. "We could only watch helplessly as missiles fell around us through the night," he said. He added that Iranian authorities had removed key navigation and safety equipment from the ship when they seized it, making it impossible to move to a safer location. BBC News Hindi has contacted Iran's embassy in Delhi for a comment. On 3 March, the Indian embassy in Tehran evacuated the crew - Kumar said this included the Sri Lankan and Bangladeshi men - from the ship and arranged rooms for them in a hotel in the city. The BBC has contacted the high commissions of Sri Lanka and Bangladesh in Delhi for comment. In Tehran, the situation remained tense. Ketan Mehta, one of the engineers on the ship, said the threat of missile strikes meant the crew could not sleep in the day or night. "Every moment felt close to death," said Anil Kumar Singh, the ship's chief engineer. Crew members said explosions nearby caused the walls of their hotel to shake through the night. The men said they stayed in the Tehran hotel until the land route out of Iran became accessible. On 15 March, they began travelling towards Iran's border with Armenia, sometimes passing through areas which were being bombed. They took shelter in Jolfa - an Iranian city located about 60 km (37 miles) from the Armenian border - where they waited for three days before receiving visas. They crossed into Armenia on 27 March and travelled to the capital, Yerevan, where they spent a night at a hotel. From there, the Indians flew to Dubai and then on to Mumbai city, arriving in the early hours of 29 March. Masood Alam, one of the crew members, said he was still shaken by the experience. Alam was due to get married after Eid, which was last week. But the ceremony had to be postponed. His family has now resumed preparations for the wedding and a new date will be fixed soon. Some crew members alleged they had not been paid for several months and were unsure whether they would return to work with Prime Tankers. The company's owner Jugwinder Brar has denied the allegations. Follow BBC News India on Instagram, YouTube, Twitter and Facebook. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A new exhibition charts Bombay's passage through the centuries via paintings, photographs and prints. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Crowds have gathered to watch the arrival of American close air support aircraft at a base in Suffolk. 12 A-10C Thunderbolt IIs - also known as the Warthog - were spotted landing at RAF Lakenheath on Monday evening. Another contingent was expected to arrive on Tuesday night amid speculation they were heading towards the Middle East to participate in US operations over Iran. The US military would not comment on their mission. Hundreds of plane enthusiasts joined a special viewing area by the perimeter fence of the airbase and told the BBC the A-10s arrived in two batches of six aircraft each. Commonly described as a 'tank buster', the aircraft is designed to support ground forces in combat. Its signature weapon is the GAU‑8A Avenger cannon, a  seven‑barrel Gatling gun built into the aircraft's nose which can fire up to 3,900 rounds per minute. Markings on the tails of some of the aircraft indicated they were from the Michigan Air National Guard. Chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Dan Caine, had stated that Warthogs were being used to attack Iranian fast attack boats and mine layers along the Iranian coast. The aircraft have also been seen in Iraq, reportedly attacking Iranian backed militias there, according to Sam Wise, an aviation analyst at Janes, the defence intelligence company. Wise said it was likely the aircraft at Lakenheath were on their way to the Middle East. He added that they would be there to "either expand the missions the A-10 is already conducting or to replace or augment aircraft already in the theatre". Andy Walker arrived from Manchester that morning to the Lakenheath viewing area to see the aircraft. He believed their arrival was to give the American military more options. "They're transiting here so they're going to end up somewhere in the Middle East," he said. "I would suggest it's to give another arrow to their bow." He said he couldn't "second guess" what was going on but he added the arrival of different aircraft types at the base was "definitely building a picture". Sixteen-year-old enthusiast Kyle Szydlo had travelled up with his father from London to take pictures of the aircraft's movements at Lakenheath. "We just arrived here recently and saw two F-35's landing," he said, referring to the Lightning II multi-role aircraft which were normally stationed there. Daniel Kemp from Hemel Hempstead said he was "just here to plane spot and look at the planes". "I just like planes really and I've never seen the A-10's before," he said. "I've just come to see them fly in." Ice cream seller Muhamad Maroof observed that the Easter holiday had brought more young people with their parents. "It's more busy than when the schools are on," he said. US Central Command (CENTCOM) would not respond to questions as to why the A-10s had arrived. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"He said to her: 'You're no longer my sister', and she told him to go to hell." This argument between a man and his sister in a city near Tehran - witnessed and recounted by one of their relatives - gives a telling insight into the painful rows erupting among families and friends as US and Israeli strikes continue. The relative, who we are calling Sina, says that when his family recently got together at his grandmother's house, emotions quickly exploded, exposing stark divisions. His uncle, a member of the Basij - a volunteer militia often deployed to suppress dissent in Iran - refused to even greet his own sister, who is opposed to the ruling regime. After their exchange, the uncle was "very quiet… and left early", Sina says. He and other young Iranians have described emotional scenes as rifts open up over the war. Even among those opposed to the government, there are deep divisions over whether the war will help or hinder attempts to bring about change. Despite the government-imposed internet blackout, the BBC has been able to maintain contact with some of the few Iranians who have found ways to remain online. Iranians can be sent to prison for speaking to certain international media. But even so, over the month-long war, these contacts have been sharing information through intermittent text messages and occasional voice calls. Their initial responses of shock and fear have given way to attempts to adapt, switching locations and changing routines. They describe the details of their lives; practising yoga despite the sounds of explosions, eating birthday cake alone and venturing out to near-empty coffee shops. And, in some surprisingly personal notes, they have shared details about how the conflict is affecting their relationships. All of the names in this article have been changed. Towards the end of March, Iranians celebrated Nowruz, the Persian new year festival that marks the spring equinox and is often a time when families get together. Sina, who is in his 20s, is opposed to the clerical establishment and continues to support the Israeli and US air strikes, believing that they will help bring the regime down. He says his uncle, the Basij member, had not attended Nowruz family gatherings in recent years, but turned up this time, to the surprise of his family. Usually, "we don't talk to him, nor to his children", says Sina. He says he has barely spoken to his uncle since major protests in 2022 following the death in custody of a young woman, Mahsa Amini, who was accused of not wearing the compulsory hijab properly. More recently, Iran saw an unprecedented crackdown by the Basij and other security forces on protests that swept across the country in December and January. At least 6,508 protesters were killed and 53,000 arrested, according to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA). Sina says that, according to other relatives, his uncle was so angered by the protests that he said even if his own children went onto the streets and were killed, he wouldn't go to collect their bodies. And yet, Sina says, his uncle seems to be "afraid of dying" in the war and appears to have been trying to improve relations with some family members, including his own mother, Sina's grandmother. At Nowruz, he and his wife "just looked really down and helpless", says Sina. "I didn't get into an argument with them. They should be in prison." Another young man, Kaveh from Tehran, spent Nowruz alone. He says his relationship with his sister, who is also a Basij member, was already difficult. After he joined the 2022 protests, he says, she became critical of his activities and unsympathetic over the deaths of friends of his in the January protests. Kaveh has been providing internet access to friends and family via SpaceX's Starlink, which offers connectivity via satellites. In Iran, owning or using Starlink terminals is punishable by up to two years in prison. He initially joined his family for the holiday, but he says he left the place where they were staying and later returned to find his sister had disconnected his Starlink and the devices connected to it. When he challenged her, a row broke out, he says. "I can't stand her anymore… I just had a fight and said I can't stand it and I left," he says. "I was so excited about Nowruz. I packed my clothes and wanted to be there with the family," Kaveh said over an encrypted line as he travelled home alone. "But now I don't feel it at all." Most Iranians have no internet access. Starlink devices are expensive as well as illegal, so those who have access tend to be relatively wealthy. A few others manage to connect via VPNs. Most Iranians who agree to speak to BBC Persian are opposed to the Iranian regime. But even among the government's critics, there are deep differences over this war and its impact. According to the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, 1,900 people have been killed in Iran by the US and Israeli strikes, while HRANA puts the total at over 3,400, more than 1,500 of them civilians. Maral, a student in her 20s in the city of Rasht in northern Iran, has become very frustrated with her father for his continued support of the war. He is an enthusiastic supporter of Reza Pahlavi, the crown prince of Iran before the 1979 revolution. Pahlavi now lives in the US and has positioned himself as a potential transitional leader of the country.  He supports the US and Israeli strikes on Iran despite mounting casualties, describing the attacks as a "humanitarian intervention" and recently urging the US to "stay the course". He has gained traction in Iran in recent months as an opposition figure, with some demonstrators in the January protests chanting his name. "I just want this war to end as soon as possible," says Maral. "Many ordinary people have died." She says she gets "annoyed" because her father is "really optimistic", even as the bombs fall. "We try to talk to him, but he just keeps going on about 'the Prince, the Prince,'" she says. "My dad lives in this illusion that Iran will open up its borders and within five years everything will be rebuilt, everything will be fine. He's being influenced by Israeli propaganda that the two countries will be friends." Her father and mother often argue about Pahlavi, she adds. Meanwhile, Tara, a woman in her 20s in Tehran, says her close family members initially criticised her for being opposed to the war. "They all support attacks on Iran… My mum and sister told me: 'You haven't lost anyone [during the protests], that's why you are against the strikes. You don't want your routine, exercise and coffee catch-ups to get disrupted… If they [the regime] had killed one of your friends or relatives [during the protests] you would have a different opinion.'" But Tara says: "Thousands of innocent people could be killed in the war as well, without anyone even remembering them." However, she says, her sister's view – like that of several other Iranians the BBC has heard from - has softened as the attacks have continued. More recently, after a nearby area was hit, she says her sister simply said: "I hope the war finishes soon." And despite their differences, the family still try to go everywhere together, Tara says. That way, "we would all die together if they hit us". One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US troops storming a secretive, underground nuclear facility to seize Iran's stockpile of enriched uranium may sound far-fetched, but it is an option President Donald Trump is reportedly considering to achieve his main objective in the war: preventing the regime from developing nuclear weapons. Such an operation would be extremely challenging and fraught with danger, according to military experts and former US defence officials who spoke to the BBC. They said it would require the deployment of ground troops and could take several days or even weeks to complete. Removing the uranium stockpile would be one of the "most complicated special operations in history," said Mick Mulroy, a former deputy assistant secretary of defence for the Middle East. The scenario is just one of several military actions that Trump could take in Iran. Others include the US taking control of Kharg Island in an effort to pressure Iran to fully reopen the Strait of Hormuz. The administration may also be using the threat of new military operations to pressure Iran to the negotiating table. In a telephone interview with the BBC's US partner CBS News on Tuesday, President Trump declined to say whether it would be possible to declare victory in the war without removing or destroying Iran's enriched uranium. But he appeared to play down the significance of the stockpile, pointing to the damage caused in US-Israeli strikes last June. "That's so deeply buried it's gonna be very hard for anybody," Trump said. "It's down there deep. So… it's pretty safe. But, you know, we'll make a determination." His remarks came after the Wall Street Journal reported that the US was considering an operation to extract the material. The White House said Trump was yet to make a final decision. An operation targeting Iran's stockpile would face several major logistical challenges, experts said. At the start of the war, Iran possessed approximately 440kg of uranium enriched to 60%, according to senior US officials. The material can be fairly quickly enriched to the 90% threshold needed for weapons-grade uranium. Iran also has roughly 1,000kg of uranium enriched to 20%, and 8,500kg that are enriched to the 3.6% threshold accepted for medical research. Most of the highly enriched uranium that can be easily turned into material for bombs or missiles is believed to be stored at Isfahan. The facility is one of three underground nuclear sites in Iran that were targeted in US-Israeli airstrikes last year. But it is unclear how much of the highly enriched uranium is stored at other locations. A military operation to retrieve the material would be easier if the US knew exactly where the stockpile was, said Jason Campbell, a former senior US defence official in the Obama and Trump administrations. "The ideal scenario is that you know exactly where it is," Campbell said. "If it's been dispersed to four different sites, then you're talking about a whole different" level of complexity. In addition to Isfahan, some highly enriched uranium could also be stored at Fordo and Natanz, the other two enrichment facilities that were targeted in Operation Midnight Hammer last year. Rafael Grossi, the director of the International Atomic Energy Agency, said last month that the majority of Iran's highly enriched uranium is stored at Isfahan, with some additional material at Natanz. But Grossi said more detailed information wasn't available because inspectors haven't visited the sites since being evacuated from Iran after the US-Israeli air campaign in 2025. "There are many questions that we will only elucidate when we are able to go back," Grossi told reporters. Gaining access to the highly enriched uranium presents another set of challenges, assuming the US knows where it is. There are signs that Iran fortified an underground complex near one of its nuclear facilities before this year's US-Israeli strikes. At Isfahan, for example, satellite imagery from February indicated all entrances to its tunnel complex appeared to be sealed off with earth, which would make any operation more difficult. Since the start of the war, the US and Israel have been able to use air strikes alone to decimate Iran's navy, degrade its ballistic missiles and damage its industrial base. But unlike those other military objectives, experts said that securing Iran's enriched uranium could not be done without using ground forces. The US could use elements of the 82nd Airborne Division - which were deployed to the Middle East - to secure the areas surrounding Isfahan and Natanz. Special operations forces that are trained to handle nuclear material would then be sent in to retrieve the enriched uranium. The uranium itself is in gaseous form and is believed to be stored in large metal containers. Satellite imagery shows that the entrances to Isfahan and Natanz were badly damaged by US airstrikes. US forces would likely need heavy machinery to dig through rubble in order to locate the enriched uranium, which is believed to be stored in tunnels buried deep underground - all while facing potential counterattacks from Iran. "You've first got to excavate the site and detect [the enriched uranium] while likely being under near constant threat," Campbell said. It is an open question how Iran might respond, or how much of a threat it might pose to US ground troops targeting the country's main nuclear facilities. The US and Israel have been degrading "Iranian defence capabilities to enable this type of operation if it was necessary," said Alex Plitsas, a former US defence official and nonresident senior fellow at the Scowcroft Middle East Security Initiative. Nevertheless, he said it would still be a "high risk" operation. US ground troops would be isolated at Isfahan, which is located approximately 300 miles (482km) inland and is Iran's third largest city. "It makes [medical evacuations] difficult given the distances. It makes [US troops] vulnerable to anti-aircraft fire coming in and out, as well as attacks while they're" at the nuclear facility," Plitsas said. While the operation could take multiple forms, experts said it would likely involve the seizure of an airfield or landing zone from which US forces could operate - and then remove the enriched uranium from Iran once they have retrieved it. The 82nd Airborne Division, which is trained to secure airfields and other infrastructure, could be used along with other US forces to stage an operating base for the mission, military experts said. Once the uranium is secured, the US would then face the question of removing it from the country or diluting it on site. Senior administration officials said at the start of the war that the US might consider diluting Iran's highly enriched uranium on site, rather than removing it from the country. But that would be a large, complex and time-consuming operation, said Jonathan Ruhe, an expert on Iran's nuclear programme at the Jewish Institute for National Security of America, a conservative think tank in Washington DC. Seizing and taking the uranium out of Iran is faster and would allow the US to dilute the material in the United States, Ruhe said. The operation would be deeply risky no matter how it is done, he added. "You've got basically a half ton of what's effectively weapons grade uranium that you've got to extricate," Ruhe said. "And there are a million things that could go wrong." One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An East Sussex couple jailed in Iran say they are increasingly in fear of intensifying executions and airstrikes. Lindsay Foreman, 53, and her husband Craig, 52, were on a round-the-world motorcycle trip when they were arrested on suspicion of espionage in January 2025 - charges they have always denied. Later sentenced to serve 10 years behind bars in Tehran, the couple admitted that their feeling of abandonment at the hands of the British government has only grown since the outbreak of war between Iran, the US and Israel in February. The Foreign Office said the UK government was working to get the couple home. Now approaching his 16th month in Evin Prison, Craig said the situation there had become "life-threatening", both as a result of the conflict outside and the volatile mood within. "It doesn't take much to be in the middle of a fight," he said. "You could just look at someone the wrong way and they will just kick off." He added that the threat of state executions also loomed large, with the recent shock news that a brother of one of his Iranian cellmates had been killed. "It just knocks you into a bit of a head spin," he said. "You just think to yourself, 'Why does this happen?' I don't know." Craig added he found it "hard to believe nothing can be done to free two innocent people, because our lives are definitely 100% at risk". His wife Lindsay described the constant anxiety of being stranded in a war zone. "I made my peace with death within maybe 48 hours of the reality of the bombs hitting," said Lindsay, describing how explosions have caused the ground beneath her feet to shake violently. Fearing one direct hit could spell "the end for everyone" at the jail and that she "could be dead tomorrow", she vowed to try to stay positive in the face of "interrogation, provocation or intimidation" and not to waste what "precious" time she has left. She also called on Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer to "absolutely defend our innocence" on the world stage. The couple's son, Joe Bennett, from Folkestone in Kent, has criticised the government's response to his parents' detention, calling the situation "a constant battle". "We're fighting to raise awareness and to get them to do the right thing and tell the truth - that my parents are innocent," he said. The Foreman family has also urgently appealed to Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper, who previously dubbed the couple's sentence "completely appalling and totally unjustifiable". They want her to formally designate them as 'arbitrarily detained' - meaning there is no legal justification for their imprisonment - and to provide a quick and clear plan for their safety. The Foreign Office said the ambassador to Tehran, plus diplomats and officials in London, had been providing assistance. The ambassador, it said, had visited the Foremans in prison and arranged calls with family in the UK. A spokesperson said the Foreign Secretary last met the family on 17 March, adding: "She set out to them personally how unjustified and appalling their incarceration continues to be. "As the conflict in the gulf continues, this has become even more worrying for the Foremans. "The UK Government continues work to safely return Craig and Lindsay to the UK." Follow BBC Sussex on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth has called on allies to "step up" over the Strait of Hormuz, echoing earlier comments from President Donald Trump. On Tuesday morning, Trump wrote on social media to tell countries to "go get your own oil",  adding that "the U.S.A. won't be there to help you anymore, just like you weren't there for us". Hegseth reiterated the president's view during a news conference on Tuesday, saying it was not just the job of the US to secure what he called a "critical waterway". Iran has effectively closed off the Strait, one of the world's busiest oil shipping channels, since the US and Israel attacked it on 28 February. Over the past three weeks, as Iran took control of the Strait, the Trump administration has whipsawed from asking Nato and European allies for help, to saying it doesn't need any help, to accusing them of disloyalty, to saying the requests for help were a "test", to now increasingly angrily demanding that allies go and reopen the Strait themselves - implying that it is not America's problem. This comes with a threat that the US could abandon its alliances, a potentially history-defining shift. In his Truth Social post on Tuesday, the president said countries "like the United Kingdom" that could not get jet fuel because of the restrictions around the Strait should "build up some delayed courage, go to the Strait, and just TAKE IT". He said he was addressing countries "which refused to get involved in the decapitation of Iran". "The hard part is done," the president added. Trump reiterated his point in an interview with the BBC's US partner CBS News. "Countries have to come in and take care of it. Iran has been decimated, but they're going to have to come in and do their own work," he said, adding that "there's no real threat" in the Strait. The Wall Street Journal earlier reported that Trump had told aides he was willing to end the military campaign against Iran even if the Strait remains largely closed. Instead, he is reportedly considering bringing the current fighting to an end, having severely damaged Iran's navy and missile stocks, and will continue to pressure Iran diplomatically to reopen the flow of trade. The BBC has contacted the White House for comment on the report. During his press conference on Tuesday, Hegseth drove home the sentiment of Trump's social media post, arguing that the US had "set the conditions of success" and that the Strait was "not just an American problem set". "There are countries around the world who ought be prepared to step up on this critical waterway as well. It's not just the United States Navy," he said. About 20% of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas (LNG) usually passes through the Strait, and the war has sent global fuel prices soaring. In their recent 15-point peace plan, US negotiators said Iran would be required to reopen the Strait - among other demands - as a precondition for ending the war. But on Monday, a spokesperson for Iran's foreign minister once again denied there had been talks with US officials. Esmaeil Baqaei said Iran had "had no negotiations with America in these thirty-one days," referring to the duration of the war. Hegseth did not list reopening the Strait among his war objectives in his prepared statement on Tuesday, but he later described it as "the goal". Like Trump, he singled out the UK, saying its "big bad Royal Navy" should get involved. The UK has said it won't be "dragged into" the war. Hegseth said: "A lot has been laid bare. A lot has been shown to the world about what our allies would be willing to do for the United States of America... the president is pointing out you don't have much of an alliance if you have countries that are not willing to stand with you when you need them." Hegseth also told reporters the timeline of the war could now be six to eight weeks, a break from the previous four-to-six-week timeline that was earlier set out by the administration. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The death of an 11-year-old Iranian boy reportedly in an air strike while manning a security checkpoint alongside his father in Tehran has thrown focus on a new initiative to recruit children into the security services. Alireza Jafari's mother Sadaf Monfared told the municipality-run newspaper Hamshahri that the pair had been helping Basij volunteer militia patrols and checkpoints to "maintain the security of Tehran and its people" when they were killed on 11 March. Last week, an Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) official in Tehran told the IRGC-affiliated Fars News Agency that the organisation would enrol "volunteers" aged 12 and above. Eyewitnesses have told the BBC they have seen children, including some armed, in security roles in the capital and other cities. Foreign-based human rights organisations have also reported Alireza's death. The Kurdish group Hengaw said he was a "fifth-grade student" who was killed while present at a checkpoint in Tehran. Alireza's mother said her husband had told her there were not enough personnel at the checkpoint, with "only four people" present. She said he took Alireza with him and said that the boy needed to be "ready for the days ahead". She quoted her son as saying: "Mum, either we win this war or we become martyrs. God willing, we will win, but I would like to become a martyr." Hamshahri newspaper said they were hit by an "Israeli drone strike". The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) told the BBC they were unable to verify this unless provided with the co-ordinates of the alleged strike. Rahim Nadali, of the IRGC's Greater Tehran Muhammad Rasulollah Corps, said the new programme, known as Homeland Defender Fighters for Iran, would place children on various duties, including patrols and deployment at checkpoints. Recruitment, he added, could take place at mosques attached to the Basij militia in Tehran, and in city squares where pro-establishment rallies have been held. The Basij is a volunteer militia controlled by the IRGC, with an estimated one million members. It is often deployed on the streets to suppress dissent. Israel has said it recently targeted several Basij checkpoints. Despite a government-imposed internet outage in Iran, the BBC has spoken to four eyewitnesses who said they had seen children under the age of 18 at checkpoints in Tehran, the nearby city of Karaj, and the northern city of Rasht. Names have been changed for security reasons. Golnaz, who is in her 20s in east Tehran, told the BBC that she had seen armed teenagers taking part in Basiji forces when she went out after an air strike on 9 March to see what was going on. Sara, also in her 20s in west Tehran, told the BBC that she saw a teenager at a checkpoint on 25 March. "He was holding a gun at the cars. He and the others were stopping cars and searching them. He was short and slight." Last month, ordinary Iranians told the BBC about security checkpoints around the capital, where they said residents were stopped and searched. Those who have been able to connect to the internet have told the BBC that the practice is still going on, and that some patrols go around with the Islamic Republic's flag and loudspeakers during the night. Some have told the BBC that they have seen teenagers at checkpoints in cities other than Tehran as well. Peyman, who is in his 20s and lives in Karaj, told the BBC that he saw what he called a "teenage boy" with a Kalashnikov at a checkpoint on 30 March. "His moustache hadn't fully grown," he said. Tina, who is also in her 20s and comes from Rasht, told the BBC that she saw young people on duty in a square in the city on 14 March. "They were wearing masks so their faces were covered. But it's obvious that they are children; I can see it from their eyes. They are short as well. They stand in front of those adult forces. I feel pity for them and I get scared at the same time." In a report on the recruitment campaign, Human Rights Watch (HRW) said it was a "grave violation of children's rights and a war crime when the children are under 15". "There is no excuse for a military recruitment drive that targets children to sign up, much less 12-year-olds," said Bill Van Esveld of HRW. "What this boils down to is that Iranian authorities are apparently willing to risk children's lives for some extra manpower." Pegah Banihashemi, an expert in constitutional law and human rights at the University of Chicago Law School, told the BBC: "Under international law, the use of children in security or military roles is tightly constrained and, in many contexts, unlawful." She also said that their deployment "introduces broader risks to society: untrained minors operating under pressure, often with limited command structure and insufficient understanding of force, can unintentionally escalate violence and endanger civilians". Holly Dagres, an Iran specialist at The Washington Institute for Near East Policy think tank told the BBC that the use of children at security checkpoints "underscores the desperation of the Islamic Republic". She said it shows "how deeply unpopular they are with their own population that it is struggling to recruit adults to staff security checkpoints and is resorting to using children in support roles during wartime". One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Pakistan's role as intermediary in this conflict took many by surprise. The head of its armed forces, Field Marshal Asim Munir, is in US President Donald Trump's favour. The US leader frequently refers to him as his "favourite" Field Marshal and has previously spoken about how Munir knows Iran "better than most". Iran is not only a neighbour of Pakistan, with whom it shares a 900km (559 miles) or so border, but by its own messages also has a "brotherly" relationship with deep cultural and religious ties. And unlike many of the usual intermediaries in the Gulf it has not yet been pulled into the conflict. Crucially, it is willing to wade in - peace between the US and Iran by many accounts would be in its interest. Still, there have been questions about how a country embroiled in conflict with two of its neighbours - Afghanistan and India - has positioned itself as a bringer of peace. The country is currently bombing Afghanistan and tensions with India led to a fear of nuclear escalation only last year. Pakistan has so far walked the tightrope between Iran and the US, passing messages between the two sides, hosting foreign ministers from other concerned Muslim nations and hitting the diplomatic telephones. But the balancing act is not risk-free. Pakistan is highly dependent on imported oil, much of it coming through the Strait of Hormuz. "Pakistan, I'd argue, more than almost any other country outside of the Middle East has a lot of skin in the game here," Michael Kugelman, a senior fellow for South Asia at the Atlantic Council, told the BBC. "It has a really compelling interest to do what it can to contribute to de-escalation efforts." Pakistan's government increased the price of petrol and diesel by around 20% at the start of March and has already introduced measures including a four-day working week for government employees to try to save fuel. "If the war continues, the economic pressures in Pakistan will increase tremendously," says Farhan Siddiqi, Professor of Political Science at the Institute of Business Administration, Karachi. There's also a fear about what an escalation could bring. In September last year, Pakistan signed a defence pact with Saudi Arabia, agreeing that "any aggression against either country shall be considered an aggression against both". It's led to questions about what Pakistan would do if Saudi Arabia joined the war and invoked the pact. "The problem for us is that if we are asked to join the war on the Saudi side, our entire Western border will be largely insecure," says Siddiqi. Pakistan is already in "all-out war" with Afghanistan; it accuses the Afghan Taliban of harbouring terrorist groups inside its borders, which the Taliban government deny. When challenged about its apparent contradictory position to diplomacy when applied to its own conflicts, Pakistan has said that it tried years of talks that did not yield the security it needed. But Siddiqi points out that opening another front is not the only concern were Pakistan to be pulled into the war, adding that there is also the "domestic reputational cost". In the days after Iran's Supreme Leader was killed in a joint US-Israeli airstrike, pro-Iran demonstrators took to the streets across Pakistan - several were killed including those who tried to storm the US consulate in Karachi. "Public sentiment in Pakistan is overwhelmingly pro-Iran," says Maleeha Lodhi, former Pakistan ambassador to the US, UK and UN. "I'm sure that Pakistan's decision makers have been very sensitive to that." And then there's the issue of Pakistan's global standing. "Pakistan is very sensitive to criticism that it doesn't have influence on the global stage," said Kugelman. "I don't think that's its main motivation for positioning itself as it has, but it has something to do with this as well." "This is high-stakes diplomacy, no question about it," adds Lodhi. "It's high-risk and high-reward. If it succeeds, of course, it catapults Pakistan to the top of the global diplomatic game." Lodhi doesn't think the damage will be too great. "Pakistan would still have been seen to have made a good faith effort. And if it didn't work, it wasn't because of Pakistan's lack of skills, but because you have a man who's terribly whimsical and completely, completely untrustworthy." However, Kugelman sees some potential for backlash if after all this speculation of talks, both sides simply resume with even more force. "Pakistan could be susceptible to allegations that it was naive," he says of that scenario. "[And that it was] brought into an effort to try to negotiate while both sides were trying to create some breathing space to think about their next steps toward escalation." It's unclear how things might play out, but what is clear is that Pakistan has been quick to capitalise its relationship with Trump. Lodhi points to Pakistan nominating Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize '"in recognition of his decisive diplomatic intervention" during the Pakistan-India crisis in 2025, and Kabul handing over the man accused of planning the Kabul airport bombing during the withdrawal from Afghanistan to the US. "Pakistan gave Trump two early wins, which are very important for him. That got the relationship off the ground and brought about this new warmth," said Lodhi. "It's willing to play unconventional diplomatic games, unlike India," Kugelman adds. "The fact that Pakistan's senior leaders have gone out of the way to flatter the president, that's really helped their cause in Washington and has made Pakistan a more attractive facilitator and mediator in the eyes of the administration." But the relationship with America is not Pakistan's only card. "Pakistan has realized that hedging is the best way to go about in regional diplomacy," said Siddiqi. "The kind of world that we face now is a world where states, especially the middle powers, are more comfortable in engaging with the policy of multi-alignment." "I think the reason why Pakistan is best positioned to speak to Iran is because it does not carry the perception of being pro-Israeli or even being very pro-American." Meanwhile, the diplomatic meetings continue. Pakistan's Foreign Minister Ishaq Dar is on Tuesday travelling to China at the invitation of his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi. But there are still big questions for Pakistan; and securing a peace deal is a long shot. "Let's be fairly clear, the odds of a deal are not that high given how much mistrust there is between the Americans and the Iranians and how maximal the demands are on both the US and the Iranian side," said Kugelman. "I think that equation is the most difficult one that Pakistan is going to have to think through if its current plans don't work out." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
It can be hard to pin down what is guiding Donald Trump a month into US and Israel's programme of strikes on Iran. But it is clear he has an eye on the oil markets. A word - or social media post - from the US president about his plans used to spark big moves in prices, as investors leaped on signs the conflict could escalate or come to an end. But in recent days, traders appear to be growing more sceptical about the value of his comments. Oil was trading at around $72 (£54) a barrel before 28 February, when the strikes on Iran began. It peaked at $119.50 a barrel on 9 March and as of Tuesday was sitting just below $113. Here are some moments from the last month where Trump and the markets appear to have bounced off each other - with varying effects. Use the arrow to move to the next slide. Jonathan Raymond, investment manager at Quilter Cheviot, says energy prices have become a proxy for wider geopolitical and economic risks, spiking when Trump's language grows aggressive and easing when his rhetoric de-escalates. He says markets are rightfully sensitive to those signals, given the big economic risks that come with rising oil prices. "Investors are trying to price genuine uncertainty," he says. "Markets can look skittish or confused, but what they're really doing is managing event risk in real time, with oil sitting right at the centre of that." But it can be difficult for investors to figure out how to trade, especially since some of Trump's comments seem aimed at influencing oil prices, rather than communicating policy, says Brian Szytel at the Bahnsen Group. "As they say, the first casualty of war is truth," he says. "I suspect some of the rhetoric back-and-forth around productive talks, and the opposite, very much are centred around just moving the price of oil." On Thursday, minutes after US stock markets saw their biggest drop since the start of the Iran war, Trump said talks with Iran were going "very well" and he was delaying military strikes on Iran's energy infrastructure until at least 6 April. But the oil price continued to rise. Jane Foley, head of FX strategy at Rabobank, says market reactions are "becoming more muted" because of the "huge gap" between Trump's reassurances and the lack of acknowledgement from Tehran. "Given the optics, many investors can not see an early end to the conflict and markets remain anxious." Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell, says markets have also become accustomed to Trump "often changing tack at signs of political or stock market or economic trouble". "There is a degree of scepticism, or even downright cynicism, creeping in at the edges," he says. Additional reporting by Naomi Rainey The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The attack on a Michigan synagogue earlier this month was a "Hezbollah-inspired act of terrorism", federal officials have said. The FBI on Monday said the accused assailant, Ayman Muhammad Ghazali, "purposely [targeted] the Jewish community and the largest Jewish temple in Michigan" and was "inspired by Hezbollah's militant ideology". Ghazali, a naturalised US citizen from Lebanon, rammed his truck into Temple Israel in West Bloomfield on 12 March. Dozens of children were inside the synagogue at the time. His recovered online activity showed repeated searches for pro-Hezbollah news channels and for queries on large gatherings of Israelis in Michigan, the FBI said in a news conference. Ghazali died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head during the attack, authorities said. No others were killed but a security guard was injured and multiple officers were treated for smoke inhalation. His online history over the past months included searches for videos about shootouts and bullets and for "news coverage of an Iranian fatwa for total jihad against the US military", FBI Special Agent Jennifer Runyan said on Monday. Authorities noted that he also consumed live coverage about Naim Qassem, the secretary-general for Hezbollah, an Iranian-backed militia and a political party designated by the US as a foreign terrorist organisation. In the days before the attack, Ghazali purchased an AR-style rifle along with 10 rifle magazines and about 300 rounds of ammunition, Runyan said. He also bought fireworks, torch lighters and gallons of gasoline. The day before the incident, he started adding photos to a Facebook album he entitled "vengeance", including with images of Iran's Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed during the first wave of strikes by the US and Israel in the war with Iran. On 12 March, while parked at the temple, Ghazali sent his sister overseas videos, photos and messages that "reiterated his intent to commit a mass terrorist attack", Runyan said. In a video sent just before the attack, Ghazali said in Arabic that he had booby-trapped his car. He then said: "I will forcefully enter and start shooting at them. God willing, I will kill as many of them as I possibly can," according to the FBI. He also exchanged five short phone calls with his ex-wife, who called police and asked then to do a welfare check on him. Ghazali then drove his vehicle into the temple doors twice, the first time unsuccessfully, officials said. He exchanged gunfire with security guards before appearing to set off fireworks from inside his truck, according to the FBI. The vehicle caught fire and the hallway filled with smoke. Authorities have not found any evidence that Ghazali had co-conspirators. Ghazali was not the subject of or referenced in any prior FBI investigation, nor was he on its terrorist watch list, authorities said. If Ghazali had lived, he would have been charged with providing material support to Hezbollah, said ﻿Jerome Gorgon, US attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan. In days after the attack, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said Ghazali's brother was a Hezbollah commander who was recently killed in an airstrike. The BBC has not independently confirmed the brother's identity. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Spain has closed its airspace to US planes involved in attacks on Iran, Madrid's Defence Minister Margarita Robles has said. "We will not authorise the use of Morón and Rota [military bases] for any acts related to the war in Iran," she said, adding that Spain had "made this clear to the American government from the beginning". Foreign Affairs Minister José Manuel Albares stated that the aim of the decision was to "not do anything that could encourage an escalation in this war". A White House official told the BBC that the US military was "meeting or surpassing all of its goals under Operation Epic Fury and does not need help from Spain or anyone else". US President Donald Trump has previously threatened to impose a full trade embargo on Spain over its opposition to the Iran war. Since the start of the war in late February, Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez has been one of the most vocal opponents of the US and Israeli attacks on Iran, describing them as "reckless" and "illegal". Earlier in March, Sánchez said Spain had denied the US use of the two jointly run military bases at Rota and Morón, both in Andalusia. Last Wednesday, he also announced that "all flight plans that involved actions related to the operation in Iran were rejected - every single one of them, including those of refuelling aircraft." "We are a sovereign country that does not wish to take part in illegal wars," he said. Some US bombers involved in operations in Iran are stationed at the RAF Fairford base in Gloucestershire in the UK, after Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer announced on 1 March that the UK had agreed to the request from the US. Planes taking off from there will be forced to bypass much of the Iberian peninsula - either by flying over the eastern Atlantic or France. Spanish newspaper El País reported that aircraft would only be able to transit through Spain's airspace or land at the bases in case of emergency. In a 10-minute televised address on 4 March, the Spanish prime minister reflected on the wars in Ukraine and Gaza, as well as the Iraq War more than 20 years ago, and said the Spanish government's position could be summed up as "no to war". Later in March, the Iranian embassy in Spain said Tehran would be receptive to requests from Madrid concerning transit through the Strait of Hormuz because Spain was "committed to international law". Around 20% of the world's oil supply normally passes through the narrow waterway between Iran and the tip of the Arabian peninsula. For weeks the threat of attacks by Iranian drones, missiles and potentially mines has kept it effectively closed, sending oil prices shooting. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has indicated that he may send troops to seize control of Iran's key oil export terminal at Kharg Island in the northern Gulf. So what's behind this, how would it work and what are the risks? Kharg Island has long been Iran's chief outlet for its oil exports. The island sits offshore with waters deep enough to load product onto tankers known as Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCCs), which can hold around two million barrels. Around 90% of Iran's oil exports pass through Kharg. During the Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s it was frequently bombed by the Iraqi Air Force and on 13 March this year the US struck what it said were 90 military targets on the island. It however spared the oil infrastructure. If the US does decide to invade Kharg Island then it would most likely be a temporary measure intended to put pressure on Iran by cutting off its fuel exports until it relinquished its chokehold on the Strait of Hormuz - one of the world's busiest oil shipping lanes - and conceded to Washington's demands. Given the resilience and defiance of the Iranian regime it is highly questionable whether this would work. The speaker of Iran's parliament, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, has warned that his country's forces would "rain down fire" on any invading US forces. Iran is believed to have reinforced its defences on the island, including with surface-to-air missile batteries. Iran has also accused the US of duplicity by proposing peace talks at the same time as dispatching troops to the region. These forces are made up of nearly 5,000 US Marines and around 2,000 paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne Division. This has prompted widespread speculation that either or both could be used to seize and hold Kharg. In theory, the paratroopers could make an airborne assault, probably at night, to seize key positions on this small island, which measures just 20 sq km (7.7 sq miles). The US Marines would deploy from ships equipped with Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft and Landing Craft Air Cushioned (LCAC) for making amphibious landings. But first those ships would have to run the gauntlet of getting through the Iranian-controlled Strait of Hormuz and then sailing all the way up the Gulf past any number of hidden Iranian drone and missile launch sites. Any landing, by air or sea, would expect to be met with anti-personnel mines and swarms of drones. Such is the awesome fighting power of these Marine Expeditionary Units (MEUs) that the US force would almost certainly prevail, but it could come at the expense of a severe number of casualties. The US then has the problem of holding the ground, for an indeterminate period, while subject to bombardment from the Iranian mainland. A comparable scenario would be Ukraine's Snake Island in the Black Sea, which Russia seized early on after its full-scale invasion in February 2022, only to be driven off it by constant harassing fire from the Ukrainian mainland. Any lengthy US occupation of Iranian territory would also be unpopular back home in the US, including with some of President Trump's supporters who elected him partly on a promise to never again get embroiled in these sorts of conflicts. Finally, it is worth noting that there has been so much noise made about a possible US ground assault on Kharg that it could be part of some deception plan. There is no doubting its strategic value to Iran and the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps. But there are other islands in the Gulf that could also be in America's sights. These include Larak Island, just offshore from the key port of Bandar Abbas, and sitting right on the Strait of Hormuz. Iran is currently making all tanker traffic pass by this island for checking and reportedly forcing vessels to pay $2m (£1.5m) to cross. Then there is Qeshm, the largest island in the Gulf and 75 times bigger than Kharg, where Iran is suspected of housing underground missile and drone sites. And there are three islands, Abu Musa and the Greater and Lesser Tunbs, whose ownership is disputed between Iran and the UAE but all are occupied by Iran. Taken together with other Iranian islands, these Gulf islands form a protective shield for Iran that can threaten shipping and give it a geographical advantage that goes a long way to offset America's superior military power. Then, there is the possibility that none of the above happens. At the same time as sending more troops to the region and signalling the possibility of a ground operation, Trump said again on Monday that the US is in "serious discussions"  with Iran, which could "end our military operations". As we move into the fifth week of the war, Trump's public statements give little clue as to what his next big move will be. But a "deal", which many suspect President Trump is more desperate for than the Iranians, will require bridging the currently enormous gap between the US and Iranian positions. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The UK government should do more to help Britons charged for filming Iranian attacks on the United Arab Emirates, a campaign group has said. Radha Stirling, the CEO of Detained in Dubai, which provides legal assistance in the country, told the BBC she is representing four people detained in the UAE and is aware of a fifth. It comes after a 60-year-old British man was charged last month under cyber-crime laws in Dubai, after allegedly filming Iranian missiles over the city. The UK Foreign Office said it is providing consular assistance to "a small number of British nationals" that have been detained there, and its ambassador is talking with Emirati authorities about the cases. Under the UAE's cyber-crime laws, photographing, sharing or posting images of sites where missiles or drones have struck is not allowed. The BBC understands five British nationals detained over this issue are currently receiving consular assistance. Stirling said it is "disgraceful" that more is not being done, and that some people are avoiding seeking consular assistance to deal with their detentions because they "don't feel confident" with the help the Foreign Office might offer. "They might call a lawyer or call their family member, [or may] call someone they know in the Emirates who's got a bit of influence. They'd rather ask them to help than the embassy," she said. Stirling said she is receiving daily notifications that people have been detained and is aware of "dozens" of cases. People being held in detention aren't necessarily being prosecuted, but also may not be released, she explained. She argued that the UK is lagging behind other nations when it comes to offering consular services, pointing to France as an example of what can be achieved with better diplomatic pressure. The human rights advocate said one of her clients was held in a police station with dozens of others, but reported seeing many people released hourly - many of them French nationals. "All of these people are being arrested for exactly the same allegations," she said. In a post on X on Monday morning, Sterling called on Dubai "to process foreigners in detention for cybercrime violations as quickly as possible". "Slap them with a small fine if you must but free the prisoners who clearly meant no harm.  Be fair and lenient with people who genuinely support the UAE.  Let it be over," she wrote. Earlier this month, the UK's embassy in the country warned that "British nationals are subject to UAE laws, violations may lead to fines, imprisonment, or deportation." Criticism of the government is illegal in the UAE, and it exercises strict control over the flow information out of the country. Photographing, sharing or posting images of sites where missiles or drones have struck is not allowed. Lana Nusseibeh, the UAE's minister of state to the EU, previously told the BBC that "the basis of the legislation" was put in place "in order for everyone to feel safe". Human rights group Amnesty International has previously said the UAE has "continued to criminalise the right to freedom of expression through multiple laws and to punish actual or perceived critics of the government". The UAE, which has long been a safe haven for foreign investment and a glamorous travel destination, has been targeted repeatedly by Iran following the outbreak of the conflict in the Middle East. Following joint US-Israeli strikes on Iranian infrastructure, Iran has hit nations friendly to the US, targeting American army bases and energy infrastructure around the Gulf. Some of the UAE's most iconic buildings have been damaged - including Fairmont The Palm hotel, in the luxurious Palm Jumeirah area, and the Burj Al Arab hotel. The Gulf's hub airports made long-distance travel cheaper - but now their future looks unclear. The port of Fujairah plays a crucial role in helping keep global supplies moving when the Strait of Hormuz is blocked. The city has been considered a safe haven by expats, tourists and influencers  - but that's now being tested. Tony and Cynnamon Church were in the United Arab Emirates to celebrate their wedding anniversary. Foreign Office officials are understood to be supporting his family. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has warned of possible further American action against a small island off the coast of Iran - home to a major oil terminal that is considered the country's economic lifeline. In an interview with the Financial Times on Sunday, Trump said he wants to "take" Iran's oil and was considering seizing Kharg Island. But he added an operation "would mean we had to be there for a while". The US has already targeted the island earlier in the war. On 13 March, the US launched airstrikes on Kharg, with Trump saying US forces had "totally obliterated" every military target there. But it held off targeting the island's oil infrastructure. There has been speculation for some time about whether US forces will at some point attempt to take over Kharg Island. In the interview with the Financial Times, Trump said: "Maybe we take Kharg Island, maybe we don't. We have a lot of options." He added: "It would also mean we had to be there [in Kharg Island] for a while... I don't think they have any defence. We could take it very easily." Sources told the BBC's US partner CBS News that Pentagon officials have made detailed preparations to deploy ground forces into Iran. Adding to that speculation, US Central Command said on Saturday that a further 3,500 US sailors and marines arrived in the Middle East as part of a unit led by the warship USS Tripoli. Both the Pentagon and the White House have declined to comment on specific troop deployments or potential plans - but have repeatedly made clear that the option is available. Taking the island would effectively cut off the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC)'s economic lifeline, affecting its ability to conduct the war, security analyst Mikey Kay, from the BBC's Security Brief, says. Taking the island could choke off Iran's oil exports and provide a platform for the US military to carry out attacks against the mainland. The US could use the island as leverage to compel the Iranians to keep the strait open. But any US operation to seize the island would be challenging, according to Aaron Maclean, host of the School of War podcast and a CBS News national security analyst. A US landing force would have to move considerable distances, either through naval vessels or as part of an airborne landing force. Iran's parliament speaker, Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, previously warned that his country's forces were "waiting for American soldiers" and they would "rain fire" on any US troops attempting to enter Iranian territory. An Iranian military official previously told local media that shipping in the Red Sea would be targeted in the event of a ground invasion. Iran has reinforced its defences on Kharg Island in recent weeks in response to the threat, including deploying additional military personnel and air defences, sources told CNN. Tehran has sent additional shoulder-fired, surface-to-air missiles to the island and has laid traps including anti-personnel and anti-armour mines in the waters surrounding it, the website reported, citing "multiple people familiar with US intelligence". Kharg Island is a small rocky outcrop just 15 nautical miles (24km) off the coast of Iran. Ninety percent of Iran's crude oil comes through a terminal on the island - transported through pipes from the mainland. Trump has specifically mentioned the potential for targeting these pipelines, but said he had so far held off to avoid long-term damage to Iran's economy. "We can do that on five minutes' notice. It'll be over," Trump said on 16 March. "Just one simple word, and the pipes will be gone too. But it'll take a long time to rebuild that." Very large tankers - capable of carrying up to 2 million barrels of crude oil - around 85m gallons - are able to come up to the island's long jetties to pick up the oil. The island's coast is close enough to deep waters, unlike the shallower coast of the mainland. The tankers then come back down the Gulf and out of the Strait of Hormuz, to China - the main buyer of Iranian oil. The island provides a major source of revenue for the IRGC. Trump said on 13 March that the US Central Command (Centcom) had executed "one of the most powerful bombing raids in the History of the Middle East and totally obliterated every MILITARY target in Iran's crown jewel, Kharg Island". He added that "for reasons of decency" he had "chosen NOT to wipe out the Oil Infrastructure on the Island". Centcom said US forces had struck more than 90 Iranian military targets on the island, "while preserving the oil infrastructure". The regional military command unit said it had destroyed naval mine storage facilities, missile storage bunkers and numerous other military sites. Iranian state media reported that no damage was done to the island's oil facilities. The semi-official Fars news agency said US attacks targeted air defences, a naval base, an airport control tower and a helicopter hangar. Following the US attack, Ehsan Jahanian, political deputy to the governor of Bushehr province in southern Iran, said oil was continuing to be exported, according to a report by the IRGC-affiliated Tasnim news agency. The country's military warned that oil and energy infrastructure belonging to firms working with the US would "immediately be destroyed and turned into a pile of ashes" if its energy facilities were attacked. Military action to destroy the island's infrastructure would be hugely damaging to Iran. It would also present a significant escalation. It would probably send global oil prices soaring even higher and could lead to Iran targeting more energy infrastructure across the Middle East. A month into the war, Iran still has the capacity to launch large numbers of low-cost, high-explosive drones at its Gulf Arab neighbours as well as at shipping vessels. It could, potentially, expand those targets to include vital infrastructure like desalination plants that provide drinking water for millions. Additional reporting by Gabriela Pomeroy One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran's parliament speaker has warned that his country's forces were "waiting for American soldiers" as a further 3,500 US troops arrived in the Middle East. Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf said Iran would "rain fire" on any US troops attempting to enter Iranian territory. US Central Command said on X that the newly-arrived sailors and marines were part of a unit led by the warship USS Tripoli, which also includes assault and transport assets. Its arrival came as the Washington Post reported that the Pentagon was preparing for weeks of ground operations in Iran. US officials have not confirmed whether ground troops will be deployed. In his message, reported by Iranian state media, Ghalibaf also said "the enemy signals negotiation in public, while in secret it plots a ground attack". There has been mixed messaging from US President Donald Trump about when the war could end. In recent days, he has said both that it was nearly over and that he was considering whether to take further action against Iran, including on energy . Earlier this week, US media reported that his administration was preparing to ask Congress for $200bn (£150bn) in emergency funding for the ongoing Iranian military operation - suggesting he wanted it to continue. Trump told reporters in the Oval Office last week that he was not sending ground troops to Iran, but added: "If I were, I certainly wouldn't tell you". Secretary of State Marco Rubio, meanwhile, said on Friday that while the US could meet its war objectives without ground troops, Trump had "to be prepared for multiple contingencies". According to the Washington Post, citing US officials, any potential ground operation approved by the White House could involve raids by a mixture of ordinary troops and Special Operations forces but would stop short of a full-scale invasion of Iran. Axios has also reported that the Pentagon is developing military options to deal a "final blow" to Iran that could include the use of ground forces, as well as a bombing campaign. The US had already deployed several military assets to the Middle East as part of its campaign against Iran. These include bombers and fighter jets, as well as aircraft carriers and missile interceptors. The US Navy's most advanced aircraft carrier, the USS Gerald R Ford, arrived in Croatia for repairs on Saturday after a fire on board injured sailors and caused significant damage. It is also unclear whether peace talks between the US and Iran have been happening. Iran has denied that such discussions have taken place. However, Iran's foreign minister Abbas Araghchi has said messages have been exchanged with the US via intermediaries but these constituted "neither dialogue nor negotiation, nor anything of the sort". Trump has said talks are happening and are going "very well", and has claimed that Iran is "afraid" to admit to discussions "because they figure they'll be killed by their own people". The president is widely reported to have passed on to the Iranians - via Pakistan, which is acting as a mediator - an outline of a 15-point plan to end the conflict. While an official text of this plan has not been published, it is reportedly a compilation of demands the US and Israel have made of Iran over many years, including for Iran to abandon its nuclear programme. Tehran has responded with its own demands, including recognition of its control of the Strait of Hormuz, reparations for war damage, and the removal of American bases from the Middle East. The US, "with a 15-point list, is setting out its wishes and pursuing what it failed to achieve in the war", Ghalibaf said on Sunday. US and Israeli strikes on Iran, which began on 28 February, have killed Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as well as several other top Iranian officials. More than 1,551 Iranian civilians have also died so far as a result of the bombings, according to HRANA, a US-based group that monitors human rights violations in Iran. Retaliatory Iranian strikes have targeted Israel and US military bases across the Middle East - disrupting major hubs for international air travel and causing the price of oil to soar. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The chair of a major fertiliser firm said the Iran war could "unleash an inflation disaster" in the UK and even lead to "famine" in Africa and Asia. A third of the world's key fertiliser chemicals pass through the Strait of Hormuz, with prices "doubling" since the war began. Lord John Fuller, chairman of Nitrasol - a liquid fertiliser producer in Norfolk - told BBC Politics East that British farmers relied on nitrogen fertiliser to grow crops and make beer, butter, meat, milk and cheese. The former Conservative leader of South Norfolk Council added that the government should relax restrictions on the fertiliser industry. The government said it was closely monitoring the situation. Lord Fuller said: "I've been in the fertiliser business for 40 years. This is a really dangerous moment. "People think, well, fertilisers? What's that got to do with me? Fertilisers are at the start of the food chain. Without fertilisers, there's no food." He said there were real concerns of famines "in many countries of the world, countries that the West can afford to outbid for [fertiliser] supplies - so we're talking about Africa or we're talking about Pakistan and Bangladesh in particular - there's a huge risk". He said the rise in fertiliser prices was also hitting the British economy. "It's unleashed an inflation disaster," he said. "Not only will people be paying more for their heating oil and petrol, but also the food you need to eat." He called on the government to scrap the introduction, due in January 2027, of a tax on imported carbon-intensive fertiliser. Lord Fuller added that the government should also look at relaxing other regulations on the fertiliser industry. A government spokesman said: "We are closely monitoring developments in the Middle East and the impacts on the food and farming sector. "Working with the Competition and Markets Authority, we are taking action to support greater price transparency, and we will respond swiftly to any evidence of harmful practices across the economy causing unfair price rises and disruption, including with fertilisers." BBC Politics East will be broadcast on Sunday, 29 March at 10:00 GMT on BBC One in the East of England, and will be available after broadcast on BBC iPlayer. Follow Norfolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
State-of-the-art US missiles were likely used in a deadly strike on a residential area of Iran last month, according to an analysis of footage by weapons experts. The analysts said a projectile visible in footage of the strike on residential buildings in the southern town of Lamerd was likely a Precision Strike Missile (PrSM). The munition is a new long-range weapon operated by the US military. According to Iranian state media at least 21 people were killed in at least two strikes on the town that day that hit residential buildings and a sports hall about 300 metres apart. Centcom - which oversees US military operations in the Middle East - declined to comment. Lamerd is a town in the Fars province of about 30,000 people, according to the 2016 census. Surrounded by rugged mountains, it is around a 14-hour drive from the capital, Tehran. CCTV footage published by Iranian state media - which was authenticated and geolocated by BBC Verify - shows what experts identify as a likely US munition in flight, moments before it explodes above the target area. Three analysts at the defence intelligence company Janes and an expert at McKenzie Intelligence said the projectile's shape, length and size of the blast created, and lack of visible nose-mounted controls, indicate the weapon in the verified footage is likely to be a PrSM. Amael Kotlarski - an analyst with Janes - said based on those characteristics and the distance from potential US launch sites in the Middle East, the PrSM is likely the only munition in the American arsenal that could have hit the town. McKenzie Intelligence also observed that Lamerd was "within the extended range" of the missile. "US Central Command has admitted to using PrSM in strikes from the desert of an unnamed Gulf country against Iran in the early phases of the conflict," it noted. The intended target of the strike may have been an Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) base located adjacent to the sports hall. While no on-the-ground footage has emerged of the base to show the impact, the building appeared to be undamaged on high-resolution satellite imagery on 9 March. The strike, which took place on the opening day of the war, came just hours after an attack on a school in Minab which Iranian authorities say killed at least 168 people, including about 110 children. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said the incident was under investigation and insisted US forces "never target civilian targets". The conflict marks the first time the weapon, which is manufactured by Lockheed Martin and entered service in 2023, has been used by the US military, according to the Department of Defense. Little is publicly disclosed about this new generation of long-range ballistic missile that can reach distances of up to 500km (310 miles). It is the successor to ATACMS - a surface-to-surface ballistic missile with a range of up to 300km (186 miles), which has been used by Ukraine against Russia. Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Gen Dan Caine, hailed his troops' use of the system in a press conference on 13 March, saying they had "made history" and carried out their operations with "the precision and determination that comes from relentless training and trust in each other and in their weapon systems". Videos and photos reviewed by BBC Verify suggest the missile may have also been used in a near simultaneous strike on a sports hall about 300m away from the residential buildings. One video showed a main road with cars passing by, with the sports hall visible in the background. Moments later, a bright yellow fireball erupts on the sports hall. While the angle of the video does not show the missile, shockwaves appear to shatter the windows of the building across the street and a man is seen running away in panic. Footage of the aftermath shows the entire side of the building blackened with soot with a plume of smoke rising into the air. Damage could also be seen to the roof and blast fragments surrounded the area. An analyst from Janes said although it is not possible to identify the munition used on the sports hall from the video alone, photos of the aftermath point to evidence consistent with a PrSM warhead. "This is the first time we are seeing the PrSM in action, so we have nothing to compare it to. The fragmentation pattern and density visible on the building does support the analysis on the nature of the PrSM warhead," Kotlarski said. Publicly available images paint a picture of daily life in the town's sports hall, where schoolchildren played volleyball tournaments and students sat exams. Among the children killed that day was a 12-year-old girl, Elham Zaeri, according to multiple Iranian state media outlets. Her father described her as an avid volleyball player, who would always turn up to the sports hall 20 to 25 minutes early. The youngest victim was reportedly two years old. Days after the strikes a mass funeral procession took place in the city. Footage from the IRGC-affiliated Tasnim news agency, showed hundreds of mourners bowing their heads in front of a group of at least 18 coffins draped in the flag of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Another clip appeared to show that a young child was among those buried. The Open Source Munitions Portal - a database that records footage and images of munitions used in conflicts - also identified footage of a PrSM in a video published by Centcom on 1 March, the day after the war began. On its website Lockheed Martin describes the missile as "mature, proven, affordable and low-risk". The company declined to comment on the strike, referring questions to the US government. On Wednesday, the company said it had signed an agreement with the US Department of Defense to "quadruple" production of the munition. What claims do you want BBC Verify to investigate? One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A majority of the American public, polls suggest, have been against the ongoing US-Israeli military campaign in Iran from the day it started. Republicans, however, have largely stuck by their president as the war approaches the end of its fourth week. At the annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in Texas, some of the party faithful expressed concern about why the US started this war, how Donald Trump is going to end it and whether the effort has been worth the costs. "I just wish that there was more transparency on why we're doing what we're doing, that way you could send your loved one overseas and be OK with that," said Samantha Cassell. "I hope it comes to an end quick, because it's the cost of living, the oil and gas, the prices are only going to keep going up." Cassell, who lives in Dallas, and her friend Joe Bolick were attending their first CPAC conference. He also had his doubts about the war. "I don't see an endgame yet," he said. "What are we actually trying to achieve? Is it true regime change? What does that look like? Who to replace them? I think we kind of got ourselves stuck." CPAC has been welcoming ground for Trump for a decade, shifting from a libertarian-leaning gathering to one dominated by Make America Great Again loyalists. The conservative conference has traditionally been held just outside Washington DC, but this year it moved to a sprawling hotel complex near Dallas, Texas. The atmosphere at this year's conference was similar to the past. A cavernous main auditorium offered days full of panels and speakers. A floor below, the exhibit hall featured plenty of conservative kitsch – a bus with the president's face on it, Trump 2028 T-shirts and glasses commemorating the 2024 attempted assassination of Trump with "bulletproof" written on it and a faux bullet embedded in its side. Some things were different, however. Even more than a thousand miles from Washington DC, the war in Iran was a common topic of conversation. And if there has been a recurring theme among the dozens of people interviewed by the BBC, it is that the conflict is creating a generational divide within conservative ranks. Toby Blair, a 19-year-old college student at the University of South Florida, travelled to Dallas for CPAC with his friend Shashank Yalamanchi, a first-year law student. Neither said that they believed the Iran war was in America's best interests. "I don't like that it's become America's job to find bad people and get rid of them," he said. "Especially when you have so many people at home that can't afford basic things like groceries and gas." Yalamanchi said that many young conservatives supported Trump because he promised to avoid getting tangled in overseas wars – that he was a realist when it came to foreign policy, not an interventionist. Two US Marine amphibious units are currently deploying to the Gulf. Elements of a US paratrooper division are also reportedly on their way. The Pentagon is also considering a $200bn request for war funding. All of this amounts to the prospect that, despite the president's assurances, the Iranian conflict may not end anytime soon. "We have a lot of issues domestically that we need to handle, and when we're spending our time and effort justifying and fighting a foreign war, we have less time and effort to spend changing things here at home," he said. The members of the "Trump Tribe of Texas" – wearing matching gold sequined jackets and necklaces spelling out the president's name – were an older crowd. Its founder, Michael Manuel-Reaud, was attending his sixth CPAC and said Iran posed a danger that needed to be dealt with. "If there's a threat for the United States getting bombed with a nuclear bomb, who can say no to that?" he asked. "[Trump] can't just quit. He's not going to stop until he finishes." "I trust Trump to know what he's doing," said Penny Crosby. "I just think whatever Trump believes needs to happen, needs to happen to take care of the job. "He's protecting us, protecting the American people," Blake Zummo said. "They're coming for us." If conference-goers here have been split over the war, on Thursday they were largely drowned out by vocal group of Iranian-Americans who have been boisterously celebrating the US military operation. They chanted "Thank you Trump" during a morning panel featuring two women that had been injured in anti-regime protests in Iran. They filled the hallways with shouts of "regime change for Iran" while holding photographs of Reza Pahlavi, the son of the late Shah of Iran, who was deposed following the nation's 1979 Islamic revolution. In the afternoon, the activists rallied outside the conference centre, waving Iranian lion-and-sun flags from the Shah's time as monarch. "It's just so refreshing to see... the people of Iran finally having a shot at liberation after 47 years of oppression and tyranny under the Islamic regime," said Nima Poursohi, who was sporting a "Persians for Trump" T-shirt and a "Make America Great Again" hat with "Persian Excursion" embroidered on the side. "No other president dealt with Iran or had even the courage to take a step forward like President Trump has," she said. The outpouring of emotion of Iranian-Americans at CPAC didn't surprise Matt Schlapp, the event's organiser. "If you were deprived of freedom for a generation, you probably want to be pretty excited to get it back," he told the BBC. But he said there was "no guarantee" that would happen. Schlapp, president of the American Conservative Union, has been running CPAC for 12 years. And he noted that – Iranian activists aside – there was a debate over where the war goes from here. "Conservatives trust President Trump," he said. "They give him a lot of latitude. But behind that is some concern about where this goes." That concern wasn't just expressed among the rank-and-file at the conference. It also spilled out onto the conferences main stage. On Thursday afternoon, former Congressman Matt Gaetz warned that, with thousands of new US soldiers heading to the Middle East, a ground invasion of Iran would make the US "poorer and less safe". "It will mean higher gas prices higher food prices," he said, "and I'm not sure we would end up killing more terrorists than we would create." The next day, on a panel that was titled "Breaking Stuff and Killing Bad Guys: The Case for Western Military Dominance", Erik Prince, founder of the military contractor Blackwater, painted a dark picture about the future of the war and dismissed the administration's "optimism" about a rapid, peaceful end to the fighting. "We face an extremely difficult challenge," he said. "Iran doesn't have an independence day because they have not been conquered since the days of Alexander the Great." When former Navy Seal Jason Redman, also on the panel, said that America had to finish the job in Iran, some in the crowd cheered and chanted "USA". At the end of the panel, Prince offered a word of caution. "I agree, USA all the way," be said, "but all the people who are cheering, make sure you put skin in the game." That elicited a round of applause from others in the crowd. Recent polling by Pew Research sheds light on some of these cracks that have appeared in Trump's formerly rock solid political base. While 79% of Republicans approve of how the president is handling the war, only 49% strongly approve. That number drops to 22% among those who "lean" Republican. The age gap is also visible in Pew's results. While 84% of Republicans say they back Trump's war conduct, only 49% of those aged 18 to 29 feel that way. Jim McLaughlin, Trump's longtime pollster, said that surveys overstate the divisions among conservatives – and that any friction within Trump's movement is temporary. "It's only going to be a matter of time before we go back to $2 gas again. This is not going to be long and drawn out," he said. "We're having a little bit of a blip here with the Iran military operation, but once that's over, you're going to see prices go down again significantly." Time will tell, but for the moment it may be setting off alarms for Trump and Republicans looking ahead to November's crucial midterm congressional elections. Younger voters were a key part of the coalition that delivered the White House back to Trump in 2024. And even 80% overall support from Republicans, while still a high mark, could spell trouble if it is tepid and translates into lower enthusiasm – and lower turnout – during upcoming congressional campaigns. Trump recently said that the US war in Iran is "winding down". On Friday night, he said he believed his base would stick with him because they don't want Iran to have nuclear weapons and they liked America protecting "certain allies" - such as Israel and the Arab Gulf states. But wars have a way of evolving in unexpected ways, and the Iranian regime, Israel and America's Arab allies will have a say in events to come. But this CPAC conference hints that the pressure for the president to find an off-ramp from the conflict is starting to build. "You have to be convinced that this is the right thing to do, particularly now that we are on the eve, potentially, of the insertion of American combat troops," former White House adviser Steve Bannon told the CPAC audience on Friday. "This is a debate that has to happen." Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A mother stands by the rubble, crying out for her daughter. For days she has been waiting for rescue workers to dig through the flattened remains of what was once her daughter's flat in Resalat, a residential district in eastern Tehran. "They don't have the manpower to get her out," the woman says. "My daughter is under the rubble... she's afraid of the dark." For a month, Iran has been at war with the US and Israel, which have been carrying out strikes across the country at targets linked to the regime. But these attacks are also having a devastating impact on civilians living nearby. They are now being caught between bombardment from the skies and a repressive regime that responded to anti-establishment protests with a deadly crackdown in January. Since the start of the war, BBC Eye has gathered exclusive footage from independent journalists inside Tehran. The BBC is rarely allowed into Iran and has not been given access since the war began. We've gathered eyewitness testimony, filmed the aftermath of strikes and analysed footage from social media and satellite imagery. Our analysis shows there has been a series of attacks on state-linked targets that are embedded in civilian neighbourhoods in Tehran, with deadly consequences for those living around them. Dozens of families had lived in the multi-storey apartment building in Resalat before it was destroyed by an Israeli air strike on 9 March. The daughter trapped in the rubble had been living in the complex with her husband and own young daughter. Days after the strike, she and her daughter were found dead under the rubble. The husband survived. Another apartment building, across the road, was also destroyed in the air strike. A man, 55, living in an apartment there, said the strike was "so sudden" and he was "thrown across the room". He says everything he owns is now buried beneath the debris. "I don't have anything now… All my documents, everything, it's gone." Local authorities and residents say between 40 and 50 people were killed in this single attack. Those made homeless are currently staying at a hotel nearby. "This was our life," the man adds. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) told the BBC in a statement that it "directs its strikes exclusively against lawful military objectives" in accordance with international law. It also said it "can confirm the casualties are substantially lower than stated". The IDF says it targeted a military building used by the Iranian Basij, a paramilitary force linked to Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). But analysis of the aftermath suggests the impact extended far beyond that single site. Satellite imagery taken in the days after the strike shows at least four buildings destroyed in quick succession. While one was well known to be associated with the Basij, surrounding structures appear to have been residential. Footage from the scene, verified by BBC Eye, shows widespread destruction across the neighbourhood. Our analysis indicates that buildings up to 65m away were heavily damaged by the blast. Residents also describe multiple explosions within seconds of each other. "They hit three times," one survivor says. "Maybe three or five seconds between them… I tried to stand up, but the rubble came down on my head." Military experts told BBC Eye that the Israeli air force is likely using particularly large bombs across Tehran from the Mark 80 series, which are often fitted with precision guidance systems. They added that the scale and spread of the damage observed in Resalat is consistent with the use of the Mark 84, the largest of the series, weighing 2,000lb (907kg). Unexploded bombs matching these types have been photographed in the city. The UN has previously urged countries and armed groups at war to avoid using powerful bombs in highly populated areas because of the danger to civilian lives. BBC Eye has spoken to two international humanitarian law experts, who believe that the use of such a heavy bomb in a densely populated area would be disproportionate, considering the potential harm to civilians, and possibly unlawful. Resalat is not an isolated case. Since the start of the conflict, the IDF said it had dropped more than 12,000 bombs across Iran and 3,600 bombs on Tehran alone. US Central Command says it has struck more than 9,000 targets across Iran. Many of these US and Israeli strikes have targeted police stations, Basij militia buildings, police headquarters, military and police universities, safe houses, IRGC homes, as well as potential ammunition stores and checkpoints. Often, these targets are located within busy civilian neighbourhoods. On 1 March, an Israeli strike hit the Abbasabad police station near Niloufar Square, where families had gathered after breaking their Ramadan fast. Eyewitnesses describe seeing at least 20 people killed, though the BBC has not verified this number. Witnesses described a "terrifying light" followed by multiple explosions. "We ran into the street," one man said. "A man and a woman had just come out of a shop… they were hit immediately." Residents reported multiple strikes in quick succession on the same target. "It wasn't even two minutes," another witness said. "When we came back, they hit again." The IDF confirmed it was responsible for the attack, saying it "struck a military target". BBC Eye analysis of the blast zone suggests that, as in Resalat, the damage extended well beyond the named target. Under international humanitarian law, all parties to a conflict must distinguish between civilian objects and military objectives. The expected harm to civilians or civilian buildings must be proportionate to the expected military advantage gained from that particular action. It also requires sides to avoid, as far as feasible, basing military targets within or near densely populated areas. The US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) says that 1,464 civilians including at least 217 children have been killed in Iran in the first month of the conflict. Residents told BBC Eye that strikes hitting residential areas risk deepening resentment, even among those who had previously been critical of the Iranian regime. The BBC asked the IDF about the incidents in this report. It confirmed the strikes but made no further comment. The US Department of Defense did not respond. Iran has also struck civilian infrastructure and residential buildings in nearby countries during the war, such as airports and hotels, notably in Gulf nations allied with Washington. In Tehran, residents criticised the Iranian authorities for their response to the war. They told the BBC there had been little visible provision of basic safety measures, including public shelters, evacuation support or temporary accommodation for those displaced. Several people we spoke to said they had received no guidance on where to go or how to protect themselves during attacks. "There are no sirens, no warnings," one resident said. "You just hear the explosion." In the absence of clear communication, and amid an ongoing internet blackout, many described feeling exposed and uncertain, unsure when or where the next strike might hit. The Iranian government has not publicly detailed any nationwide civil defence protocols in response to the attacks. The United States and Israel say they are targeting the infrastructure of the Iranian state. But in a city where that infrastructure sits side-by-side with homes, shops and schools, the consequences are being felt far beyond the named targets. For those living through it, that pressure is measured in homes lost, families shattered, and a growing sense that nowhere is truly safe. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US Secretary of State Marco Rubio says the US expects to finish its operations in Iran "in the next couple of weeks". The objectives were being achieved and were ahead of schedule, he said at the end of a meeting in France of foreign ministers from the group of major Western economies, known the G7. Referring to peace talks that President Donald Trump says Iran wants - which Tehran denies - Rubio said there had been messages, but it was unclear who was left to represent the country. Several top Iranian leaders have been killed since the US and Israel began the war on 28 February. In the meantime, the US is sending troops to the area to give the president options, Rubio said. Trump and his top officials have consistently said their operations in Iran would last four-to-seven weeks. As the fourth week is about to end, Rubio's time frame would fit with those predictions - although he also mentioned that it was a question of "weeks, not months" when he answered a series of questions from reporters. Trump is widely reported to have passed on to the Iranians - via Pakistan - an outline of a 15-point plan to end the war. However, when asked by reporters if the Iranians were going to give their response on Friday, the US secretary of state said: "We haven't gotten it yet. Look, we've got messages. We've had an exchange of messages and indications from the Iranian system, whatever's left of it, about a willingness to talk about certain things. "We're waiting for further clarification about who was it that we would be talking to, what we would talking about, and when will we be talking." Trump's special envoy Steve Witkoff later said he was "hopeful" there would be meetings "this week". "We have a 15-point deal on the table that the Iranians have had for a bit of time. We expect an answer from them and it would solve it all," Witkoff said. Trump told reporters on Friday that he had paused a threatened attack on Iran's power plants to give talks a chance. "Iran is being decimated," he said, adding: "We are talking now. They want to make a deal." On Friday, Iran said that Israel had carried out attacks on Iranian nuclear facilities as well as two of the country's largest steel plants - prompting Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi to threaten to exact a "heavy price". Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC), the country's powerful military force that underpins the regime, said it would retaliate by targeting industrial infrastructure connected to the US or Israel. In their statement after the talks, the G7 foreign ministers called for "the absolute necessity to permanently restore safe and toll free freedom of navigation in the Strait of Hormuz", which Iran has closed in retaliation. It was a reference to Iran's threat to charge a fee, Rubio said. There have been reports that IRGC has already been charging some vessels a fee in return for secure passage. Iranian MPs are also drafting a bill, although it is in its early stages. About 20% of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas typically passes through the Strait of Hormuz. Its closure has caused the price of oil to skyrocket and has raised concerns that a prolonged blockage could raise energy prices - and even lead to a severe contraction in the economies of many countries. Most of the G7 countries, except Japan, are members of the Nato transatlantic alliance, which have so far refused to answer a call by Trump to send ships to escort vessels through the strait, angering the US leader. Instead, they have said ending the conflict was the best way to ensure freedom of passage. After the talks in France, Rubio said the UK was leading the work to build a coalition to ensure the strait remained free. Such a coalition, he said, would be needed for the period after the war. He added that US allies would be more affected than the US if the Iranian threat became a reality. Referring to the war more generally, the G7 communique called for "an immediate cessation of attacks on civilians and civilian infrastructure". "There can be no justification for the deliberate targeting of civilians in situations of armed conflict as well as attacks on diplomatic facilities," it said. The statement did not mention the warring parties by name, but its message appeared to be more targeted at Iran which, in addition to closing the strait, has also attacked civilian targets in Gulf countries allied to the US. Tehran has sent drones and missiles towards Israel, but also most of the Arab Gulf countries where the US has military bases and other alliances. In addition to targeting them, Iran has also hit airports, residential apartments, US embassies and energy sites in a region where most countries are world players in oil and gas production. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
FBI Director Kash Patel's personal email account has been hacked by an Iran-linked group, the agency has confirmed. A group, known as the Handala Hack Team, shared Patel's purported resume and  photos of him on its website on Friday along with a statement that says: "This is just our beginning." The FBI said it was aware of "malicious actors" targeting Patel's email information. "The information in question is historical in nature and involves no government information." The agency is offering up to $10m (£7.5m) for information that helps in identifying members of the Handala group. Iranian-backed hackers were reported to have breached Patel's private communications in 2024, weeks before he was appointed to lead the FBI. It is not clear if that breach was different from the one claimed by the Handala group on Friday. Photos Handala claims to have taken from Patel's email account have been circulating on social media with the group's logo added as a watermark. The photos show Patel at various unidentified locations, including standing beside a vintage convertible, smiling next to a jet, smoking and sniffing cigars, taking a selfie next to a bottle of liquor, and posing in what appear to be restaurants and hotels. The BBC has not independently verified the leaked documents. Cynthia Kaiser, senior vice-president at Halcyon Ransomware Research Center, told the BBC that Friday's release was likely from a historical breach. "The emails look very old and that makes me believe that this is likely a compromise that occurred from other groups in another time period, and is recycled today," Kaiser, who has worked at the FBI's Criminal, Cyber, Response, and Services Branch, said. The Handala group said in its statement announcing the hack that the "so-called 'impenetrable' systems of the FBI were brought to their knees within hours by our team. This is the security that the US government boasts about?! This is the cyber giant that thinks threats and bribes can silence the voice of resistance?!" Experts say this kind of operation on a senior US government official may not take much sophistication to achieve. "Personal accounts don't have the same level of protection and alerting as government systems, so these are often an attractive target for hackers," said Dave Schroeder, director of National Security Initiatives at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. "Handala consistently tries to gain this type of access because it serves their interests to claim hacks of prominent people and organizations," Schroeder added. Last week, the US justice department seized several Handala domain names it says were involved in hacking schemes linked to the Islamic Republic of Iran. The department said Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) had been using the Handala websites to spread "terrorist propaganda", conduct "attempted psychological operations targeting adversaries of the regime", claim credit for hacking activity, and call for the killing of journalists and dissidents. The domain used to carry out the hack against Patel was registered the same day the justice department announced it had seized the four domains associated with the group, on 19 March, CBS News, the BBC's US partner, reported. Handala said its hacking of Patel's email account was in retaliation for the FBI's seizure of its websites, as well as for the FBI offering a reward of $10m for information on similar malicious attacks. Earlier in March, Handala group also claimed responsibility for the cyber-attack on US medical technology firm Stryker. The incident saw the company's employee login defaced with a message claiming data had been erased in a "wiper" attack by the Iran-backed group of hacktivists. In a post at the time on their now-suspended X account, Handala claimed it had wiped "over 200,000 systems, servers and mobile devices", and extracted "50 terabytes of critical data". The group said the Stryker cyber-attack was "in retaliation for the brutal attack" on an Iranian girls' school at the start of the war, in which more than 160 people were killed, as well as "in response to ongoing cyber assaults against the infrastructure" of Iran and its allies. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The UN's human rights chief has urged the US to conclude its investigation and publish its findings into a deadly strike on an Iranian primary school that happened on the first day of the war last month. The bombing "evoked a visceral horror", Volker Türk said at an urgent UN Human Rights Council debate, adding that there "must be justice for the terrible harm done". The attack on Shajareh Tayyebeh school consisted of two missile strikes in quick succession that killed at least 168 people, including about 110 children, Iranian officials have said. US media have reported that American military investigators believe its own forces were likely responsible for hitting the school unintentionally. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth previously said the matter was being investigated. The strike, if a US role were to be confirmed, would amount to one of its worst single cases of civilian casualties in decades of US conflicts in the Middle East. "The images of bombed-out classrooms and grieving parents showed clearly who pays the highest price for war: civilians with no power in the decisions that led to conflict," Türk said. He said that "the onus is on those who carried out the attack to investigate it promptly, impartially, transparently and thoroughly". "Senior US officials have said the strike is under investigation," he said, calling "for that process to be concluded as soon as possible, and for its findings to be made public". Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said in a video address to the UN meeting in Geneva that the bombing was a "deliberate and intentional" attack by the US. "This atrocity cannot be justified, cannot be concealed, and must not be met with silence and indifference," he said. Earlier this month, Democrats in the US Senate wrote to Hegseth demanding answers about the strike. The letter, from nearly every Senate Democrat, asked a series of detailed questions about the strike in Minab - starting with whether the US carried it out. It questioned whether old or faulty target analysis could have led to the school building being hit. It also highlighted Hegseth's vow during a news conference that there would be no "stupid rules of engagement" in the war, and asks if the defence secretary had complied with rules to prevent the commission of war crimes. The Pentagon said it would respond directly to the authors of the letter, as with all congressional correspondence. Hegseth previously said the US did not target civilians and was investigating the issue. The New York Times - citing individuals briefed on the US investigation - reported that officers at US Central Command (Centcom) created the target co-ordinates for the strike using outdated data provided by the Defense Intelligence Agency. The intended target of the strike was an adjacent base belonging to Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), of which the school building was formerly a part. But news agency Reuters reported that satellite imagery from mid-2015 showed the school building was walled off from the rest of the base and appeared to have operated as a school since at least 2018, when painted murals were visible on the walls. Expert video analysis has shown the IRGC base was hit by a Tomahawk missile - a type of US cruise missile that neither Israel nor Iran is known to possess. A video published by Iran's semi-official Mehr news agency - which was confirmed by BBC Verify to be authentic - showed a missile in the moments before it struck the base. Experts who saw the video said the presence of a Tomahawk missile, along with evidence the area was hit with multiple strikes, indicated that it was a US operation. On March 17, a UN fact-finding mission opened its own investigation into the strike. Additional reporting by Tom Bateman The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The interruption of oil and gas supplied through the Strait of Hormuz due to the US-Israel war with Iran has dramatically pushed up global energy prices. Petrol has gone up already and UK domestic heating bills are almost certain to follow. But it's not just fuel that's been impacted by the conflict. A host of other vitally important chemicals, gases and other products normally enter international supply chains via the Hormuz Strait. BBC Verify has found that the price of a host of goods - ranging from food, to smartphones, to medicines - could be affected, as the number of ships passing through the Hormuz Strait has dropped from well over 100 a day before the war to just a handful. Here is what could be impacted. Petrochemicals are derived from oil and gas and they are produced in great quantities for export by countries in the Gulf region. And one of the most important is fertiliser, vital for global agricultural production. According to the United Nations, around a third of the world's fertilisers - such as urea, potash, ammonia and phosphates - normally pass through the Hormuz Strait. Data from the World Trade Organization shows that, since the conflict began, outbound shipments of fertiliser-related products through the waterway have collapsed. Analysts have warned that a shortage of these ferilisers is likely to be particularly damaging to agricultural production now because March and April are the northern hemisphere's planting season and less fertiliser use now by farmers will impact yields for later in the year. "A relatively brief closure could disrupt an entire growing season, with food security consequences that persist long after the strait reopens," according to researchers at the Kiel Institute. The Institute's work suggests a full closure of the Strait of Hormuz could push up global wheat prices by 4.2% and fruit and vegetable prices by 5.2%. And it estimates that the most badly affected countries in terms of the overall increase in food prices would be Zambia (31%), Sri Lanka (15%), Taiwan (12%) and Pakistan (11%). Russia normally supplies around a fifth of global fertiliser exports and analysts say it could potentially increase production to fill the gap. Vladimir Putin's special envoy, Kirill Dmitriev, has said that Russia, a major producer of commodities like fertiliser, is "well positioned". A third of global shipments of helium gas normally come from Qatar and pass through the Strait of Hormuz. It's a byproduct of the production of natural gas and is used in the manufacture of semiconductor wafers, which are then processed into the microchips used in computers, vehicles and household appliances. Helium is also used to cool the magnets in Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanners used in hospitals. Qatar's giant Ras Laffan plant, which produces the gas, has shut down production after Iranian missile and drone strikes. And the Qatar government has warned it will take three to five years to repair the damage, raising fears about supplies. In 2023, the US Semiconductor Industry Association warned of "price spikes" if global helium supplies were disrupted. Analysts have warned the knock-on impact of the Hormuz blockage could be an increase in the prices of a host of cutting-edge technologies, from smartphones to data centres. And Prashant Yadav, a senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations, has warned MRI prices could be driven up by prolonged helium shortages. "MRI machines require somewhere between 1,500 to 2,000 liters helium to cool the magnets. Every time you do a scan, a little bit of that boils off or evaporates. "People like to think helium's predominant use is in data centers, semiconductors and cooling for the AI and data industry. But we can't forget that helium is quite important for MRIs and for other medical users," he told BBC Verify. Derivatives from petrochemicals - such as methanol and ethylene - are vital materials in the global production of pharmaceuticals, including painkillers, antibiotics and vaccines. The countries of the Gulf Co-operation Council - Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Oman, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Bahrain - are estimated to account for around 6% of global petrochemical production capacity. These nations primarily use the Strait of Hormuz to export these chemicals to the wider world, with around half going to Asia. India produces a fifth of the world's generic (non-branded) pharmaceutical exports, many of which are sent on to the US and Europe. Many of these pharmaceutical products are also normally flown to global markets via Gulf hub airports, particularly Dubai, which have been severely disrupted by the conflict. Some analysts have warned of the potential for higher medicine prices for households as a result of the disruption in the Strait of Hormuz. Sulphur is another byproduct of the processing of crude oil and natural gas and produced in large volumes for export in the Gulf region. Around half of the global seaborne sulphur trade normally passes through the Strait of Hormuz. Its main use is as an agricultural fertiliser, but it is also vital for metal processing. Sulphur is used to make sulphuric acid, which is used for processing copper, cobalt and nickel and also for the extraction of lithium. All of those metals are needed for the production of batteries, which are used in everything from domestic appliances to electric vehicles to military hardware like drones. Analysts warn that if sulphur supplies remain interrupted, the result will likely be higher prices for consumers of products containing batteries. Additional reporting by Tom Edgington and Joshua Cheetham What claims do you want BBC Verify to investigate? The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Donald Trump's popularity among the American public has been eroding steadily since he returned to the White House in January last year. While some of this is typical for second-term American presidents, Trump's initial decline also reflects ongoing public dissatisfaction with high prices and the cost of living - issues that have propelled Democrats to wins in a growing number of elections over the past year. According to data by election analysis website The Downballot, Democrats did an average of 13% better in contested special elections in 2025 than they did in the same districts during the 2024 presidential election. The war in Iran has only exacerbated these economic concerns. Polling company Ipsos found that 43% of the American public approved of Trump's handling of the economy at the start of his second term. By 23 June 2025, the number had dropped to 35%, a level it hovered around for the rest of the year. Three weeks into the Iran war, petrol prices have surged to an average near $4 a US gallon, as seen in the chart below. Trump's economic approval rating, meanwhile, has fallen to 29%. That was lower than any mark for Joe Biden during his four years in the White House, when Americans faced a post-Covid pandemic inflation spike. Economic anxiety contributed to Democratic defeat in 2024 and Republicans controlling the presidency and both chambers of Congress for the past year. Now it appears to be creating a drag on Trump's net approval. At the start of his second term, according to a polling average by political analyst Nate Silver, Trump enjoyed 52% approval. While it wasn't the kind of political honeymoon many past presidents have enjoyed, support from a majority of Americans after a contentious election allowed Trump to claim an electoral mandate and push ahead with his sweeping political agenda on immigration, tariffs, government cuts and tax reform. By 28 February, at the start of the Iran war, however, only 42% of Americans had a positive view of president. This week, that mark had sagged to 40%, as shown in the chart below. That is dangerous territory for an incumbent president just seven months from midterm congressional elections. The longer the Iran war stretches on, and the longer it disrupts the global economy and pushes consumer prices up, the greater the risk may be. At this week's Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC), a gathering near Dallas, Texas, of right-wing politicians, activists and highly engaged voters, the stakes in November's elections were a common topic of discussion. "We cannot let the left win this election cycle and take away this agenda that we are fighting for every single day," said Michael Whatley, North Carolina Senate candidate and former chairman of the Republican National Committee. He warned that with Democrats back in control, "it is impeachment, it is hoaxes, it is investigations and an agenda that is off the rails". The president's approval rating since the start of the war hasn't suffered a precipitous drop, despite a majority of the public being opposed to the US military intervention from the beginning. That's because Trump's political base has continued to back him despite economic concerns, according to figures below tabulated by the Pew Research Center. That support from the party faithful, which looks past his campaign promises to pull the US out of foreign entanglements, was certainly on display at CPAC in Texas. "It's better to pay more now than to pay a lot more later on," Paul Heere said of rising US petrol prices. "I don't think you want to have yet another country in that region have nuclear weapons, so you got to pay that price." A recent Quinnipiac poll found 86% of Republicans support the US military action in Iran and 80% approve of how Trump is handling it. Among all registered voters, those numbers drop to 39% and 34%, respectively. Democrats have largely opposed everything Trump has done since returning to the White House. But now independent voters appear to be turning against him, as well. Winning over independent voters was one of the keys to Trump's victory in 2024. Unless the current political dynamics change, independent antipathy could contribute to his party's potential undoing in November. Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran has effectively blocked the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world's busiest oil shipping channels, since the US and Israel attacked the country on 28 February. About 20% of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas (LNG) usually passes through the strait and the war has sent global fuel prices soaring. Bounded to the north by Iran and to the south by Oman and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the corridor – only about 50km (31 miles) wide at its entrance and exit, and about 33km wide at its narrowest point – connects the Gulf with the Arabian Sea. The strait is deep enough for the world's biggest crude oil tankers, and is used by major Middle Eastern oil and LNG producers, as well as their customers. In 2025, about 20 million barrels of oil and oil products passed through the Strait of Hormuz per day, according to estimates from the US Energy Information Administration (EIA). That is nearly $600bn (£447bn) worth of energy trade per year. The oil comes not only from Iran but other Gulf states such as Iraq, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the UAE. About 20% of global LNG is also shipped through the strait, mostly from Qatar. In 2024, it exported about 9.3 billion cubic feet per day (Bcfd) of LNG through the strait, and the UAE about 0.7 Bcfd, according to the US government. LNG is gas turned into liquid, which takes up 600 times less space for transport, which is then turned back into gas at its destination to be used for heating, cooking and power. Hormuz is also a crucial route for exports of fertiliser from the Middle East, where natural gas is used heavily in the production process. About one-third of the world's fertiliser trade normally passes through the strait. And going in the opposite direction, the strait is a vital channel for imports to the Middle East, including food, medicines and technological supplies. About 3,000 ships usually sail through the strait each month but this has dramatically decreased recently, with Iran threatening to attack tankers and other ships. A mix of threats - including drones, missiles, fast attack boats and potentially mines - presents a serious challenge to boats seeking to travel through the strait. By 20 March, the BBC had been able to verify 20 attacks on commercial vessels off the Iranian coast. "You can be attacked, and you can't get insurance or it is extremely expensive, so you have to wait until the security situation is better," Arne Lohmann Rasmussen, chief analyst at Global Risk Management, a provider of energy market insights, told CBS News, the BBC's US partner. "While there is no physical blockade, threats from the Iranians, plus drone and missile attacks, mean tankers are not going through the strait." Energy prices are volatile, and remain well above levels before the conflict. Brent crude rose to $101 a barrel at midday on Wednesday in the US before falling back to $98 as President Donald Trump spoke optimistically about the possibility of ending the war. In their recent 15-point peace plan, US negotiators said Iran would be required to reopen the Strait of Hormuz - among other demands - as a precondition for ending the war. But on Wednesday, Iran's foreign minister says the country is not currently negotiating with the US to end the war and "does not intend" to do so. Gulf countries, including Iran, rely heavily on energy exports for their income. A blockade of the strait has also hit Asia hard, with China alone estimated to buy around 90% of the oil that Iran exports to the global market. Because China uses that oil to make products it then exports to other countries, higher oil prices could also mean higher prices for consumers around the world. In Asia, the fuel crisis is impacting daily life. Governments have ordered employees to work from home, cut the working week, declared national holidays and closed universities early in order to conserve their supplies. In Africa, South Sudan and Mauritius have both announced measures restricting electricity consumption. In Europe, Slovenia became the first EU member state to implement fuel rationing. United Nations rules allow countries to exercise control of territorial seas up to 12 nautical miles (13.8 miles) from their coastline. At the narrowest point, the Strait of Hormuz and its shipping lanes lie entirely within Iran and Oman's territorial waters. According to experts, one of the most effective ways for Iran to restrict the strait militarily would be to lay mines using fast attack boats and submarines. Iran's fast boats are often armed with anti-ship missiles. So far, the US has not deployed any warships to the strait, confining its military response to air attacks on Iran, including its navy. On 18 March, for instance, the US military reported bombing Iranian anti-ship cruise missile sites along the strait. A recent call by US President Donald Trump for other countries, including both US allies and China, to help secure Hormuz by sending warships met with little enthusiasm. He then said the US did not actually need their help. The US has previously used its military might to re-establish the flow of maritime traffic through the strait. In the late 1980s, during the eight-year Iran-Iraq war, strikes on oil facilities escalated into a "tanker war" that saw both countries attacking neutral ships to exert economic pressure. Kuwaiti tankers carrying Iraqi oil were especially vulnerable. Eventually, American warships began escorting them through the Gulf in what became one of the largest naval surface warfare operations since World War Two, according to the US Naval Institute. In a message posted by its mission to the United Nations on Tuesday, Iran said it would allow "non-hostile vessels" to pass through the Strait of Hormuz, provided they coordinate with "the competent Iranian authorities". About 100 ships passed through the Strait of Hormuz between 1 March and 20 March, BBC Verify analysis showed earlier this month. Daily traffic is down about 95% since the Iran war began on 28 February, according to the analysis. About a third of these recent crossings were made by ships with connections to Iran. Between 1 and 15 March, a total of 11 China-linked vessels transited through the strait, the US business news site CNBC reported on 18 March. On 14 March, India said two India-flagged tankers carrying liquefied petroleum gas had passed through Hormuz, and the country is hoping that talks with Iran will ease restrictions. The persistent threat of closure has, over the years, prompted oil-exporting countries in the Gulf region to develop overland routes. Saudi Arabia operates the 1,200km-long East–West Crude Oil Pipeline, capable of transporting up to five million barrels of crude oil per day, according to the US government. In the past, it has also temporarily repurposed a natural gas pipeline to carry crude oil. The UAE has connected its inland oilfields to the port of Fujairah on the Gulf of Oman via a pipeline with a daily capacity of at least 1.5 million barrels. Oil could be diverted along the alternate infrastructure to bypass Hormuz but Reuters reports that would lead to a drop in supply of 8-10 million barrels per day. In addition, oil loading at Fujairah has been disrupted by drone attacks. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Israel says it has killed the Iranian navy chief overseeing what is a near-total blockade of the Strait of Hormuz. Alireza Tangsiri, head of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) navy, was "directly responsible for the terrorist act of bombing and blocking the Strait of Hormuz", and has been "blown up", according to Israel's defence minister Israel Katz. He added that a number of other "senior Navy command officials" have also been killed. Iran has not yet commented. Since the start of the war on 28 February, Israel has assassinated several top Iranian officials, including Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and security chief Ali Larijani. Effectively blockading the Strait of Hormuz - the thin waterway between Iran, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Oman, through which around 20% of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas normally passes - has been a key pillar of Iran's strategy in the war. As of last week, daily traffic through the strait was down about 95%. Oil prices have consequently shot up, placing a direct price of the war on consumers in not only the US and Israel but across the world. In recent weeks, an X account attributed to Tangsiri and cited by Iranian media has posted frequently about the Hormuz blockade, writing that "no vessel associated with the aggressors against Iran has the right to pass through". Tangsiri was appointed as the commander of the Navy in 2018, having previously served as deputy commander since 2010. In 2019, he was sanctioned by the US Treasury along with other IRGC commanders after Iran shot down a US surveillance drone near the strait. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu described Tangsiri as an individual with "a great deal of blood on his hands" and said his assassination was "yet another example of the co-operation between us and our friend, the United States, toward the common goal of achieving the objectives of the war". US Central Command said in a statement Tangsiri's death "makes the region safer" and that the IRGC's navy "is on an irreversible decline". It also called on serving members of the IRGC to abandon their posts and return home "to avoid further risk of unnecessary injury or death". Israel's military said in a statement posted on X that the head of the IRGC Navy's intelligence directorate, Behnam Rezaei, was also "eliminated". Additional reporting by Ghoncheh Habibiazad The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The UK is facing the biggest hit to growth from the Iran war out of the G20 major economies, according to an influential global policy group. Economic growth in the UK this year is forecast to be 0.7%, the Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) said, down from its previous forecast of 1.2%. Inflation is also predicted to be higher than expected. The OECD has downgraded forecasts for many of the world's biggest economies due to the US-Israel war with Iran. A prolonged conflict could trigger "significant energy shortages" globally, it warned, while if the sharp rise in fertiliser prices is sustained crop yields will be impacted and food prices will soar next year. Wholesale oil and gas prices have soared since the war started, due to disrupted supply from the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world's busiest oil shipping channels, and damage to oil and gas plants in the Middle East. Experts fear a prolonged period of high energy prices will dampen growth, fuel inflation, and make interest rate cuts less likely. The effects are already being felt at the pump, with UK drivers seeing higher petrol and diesel prices, and by heating oil users. Mortgage lenders have responded by raising rates and axing hundreds of deals. The OECD's global growth forecast for this year is unchanged at 2.9%, but it predicts inflation across the G20 countries will be 4%, sharply up from its previous forecast of 2.8%. The G20 includes the EU plus 19 other countries, collectively accounting for 85% of the world's economic output. UK inflation is now forecast to hit 4% this year, up from the previous estimate of 2.5%. The OECD then forecasts inflation will drop to 2.6% in 2027 - still up from its previous projection of 2.1%. Among G7 countries, only the US is predicted to have higher inflation than the UK in the forecast, while only Italy is expected to see weaker growth. The G7 is made up of the US, UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan. In early March the UK government's official forecaster, the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR), cut its expected growth rate for the UK this year to 1.1% from the 1.4% it predicted in last year's Budget. But this forecast was made before the Iran war, which the OBR said could have a "very significant" impact on economies. Chancellor Rachel Reeves said the Iran war would affect the UK, but "in an uncertain world we have the right economic plan". "The decisions we have taken have put us in a better position to protect the country's finances and family finances from global instability," she said. But shadow chancellor Sir Mel Stride called the downgrade a "damning verdict on how vulnerable our economy is thanks to Labour". "Rachel Reeves can blame the world all she wants, but it's her choices that have weakened our economy at the worst possible moment," he added. The Liberal Democrats called the forecast a "wake-up call that the government's anti-growth agenda" was costing families. The OECD's outlook aims to give a guide to what is most likely to happen in the future, but forecasts can be incorrect and do change given the many factors that affect economic growth. The organisation said its predictions depend on the assumption that the current energy market disruption eases, with oil, gas and fertiliser prices falling from summer onwards. It said measures from governments to cushion households from the impact of higher energy prices "should be timely, well-targeted on households most in need and viable firms, preserve incentives to lower energy use and have clear expiry mechanisms". Earlier this week Reeves said the government planned to help "those who need it most" if energy bills spiral. She said any package would be constrained by the government's borrowing rules and its wish to keep inflation and interest rates "as low as possible". The OECD said policies that improve domestic energy use and lower reliance on imported fossil fuels over the medium term should be a priority. The forecast came as Stuart Machin, chief executive of UK retailer M&S, said "policy costs" on the company's energy bill had "skyrocketed" in recent years, and were unsustainable for businesses. "These are the tariffs that government place on our bills to fund their policies," he said on LinkedIn, and "have nothing to do with the price of oil and gas". Earlier on Monday, UK clothing retailer Next said it was likely to experience £15m in additional costs - such as fuel and air freight - if Iran war lasts for three months. These have been offset by savings elsewhere, it said, but if the conflict continues for longer than three months "we will begin to pass costs through as higher pricing – but for today that remains a contingency not a plan". Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump has insisted the US is negotiating with Iran over an end to the war, but Tehran has repeatedly said talks are not taking place. Iran's foreign minister Abbas Araghchi admitted messages have been exchanged with the US via intermediaries, but said these constituted "neither dialogue nor negotiation, nor anything of the sort". Trump claimed on Wednesday that Iran is "afraid" to admit to talks "because they figure they'll be killed by their own people". So, who to believe? Is peace just around the corner? Or are both sides settling in for a costly, protracted war that will keep energy prices high, affecting the whole world right through the summer? The signs are that we are now entering into a situation not dissimilar to the logjam over ending the Russia-Ukraine war. Both sides say they want it to finish, but on their terms, which are still far apart from what the other side will accept. When this war started, on 28 February, there were high hopes in Washington and Jerusalem that the overwhelming military superiority enjoyed by both these two nations over Iran would result in the inevitable collapse of the Islamic Republic. Failing that, Iran, already in dire straits economically, would be brought to its knees and sue for peace on America's terms. That has not happened. So what the US and Israel want, they may not necessarily get, as every day the Iranian regime survives it feels more emboldened. Details of a proposed US 15-point plan, published by Israel's Channel 12 network, include an end to Iran's nuclear programme, an end to its ballistic missile programme, and an end to Iran's support for "proxy militias" like the Houthis in Yemen and Hezbollah in Lebanon. In return, Iran would get sanctions relief and some shared control over the Strait of Hormuz. Initially, Iran flatly rejected the US 15-point plan, calling it "excessive". Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi was less explicit later on Wednesday. He told state TV that "some ideas" had been proposed to the country's senior leaders - and "if a position needs to be taken, it will certainly be determined". Instead, its state media has listed five conditions for ending the war, which include the payment of war reparations, international recognition of Iran's "sovereign right to exercise authority over the Strait of Hormuz", and a guarantee that Iran will not be attacked again. These demands would be a bitter pill for Washington and its Gulf Arab allies to swallow. Iran believes that as the largest nation in the region, with a population of more than 90 million people, with the longest coastline in the Gulf, it should resume its rightful role as "the policeman of the Gulf" - a role it enjoyed under the previous rule of the shah that ended with the Islamic Revolution in 1979. It would like to see the US Navy's 5th Fleet, headquartered in Bahrain, depart the region, allowing Iran to become the pre-eminent military power in the Gulf, supported by its allies Russia, China and North Korea. Iran says that it has a severe problem trusting the US since twice now it has sat down to negotiations - in 2025, and this year in February - only for the US to walk away and begin military strikes. Critics of Iran say it was simply stringing the talks along and had no intention of ever giving up the programmes and policies that threaten the whole region. The Gulf Arabs are dismayed by what has happened. They had no great fondness for the Islamic Republic regime - but they had reached an uneasy accommodation with it before this conflict began. Now they have watched in horror as the US has given this war its best shot and failed to bring down the Iranian regime, instead leaving it wounded and angry, lashing out at its neighbours on this side of the Gulf with drones and missiles. To the frustration of Washington and US Central Command (Centcom), Iran is now in a far stronger position strategically than it was a month ago, since it has been able to assert de facto control over the crucial Strait of Hormuz. This gives Tehran enormous leverage over the global energy market, knowing that the international pressure on US President Donald Trump to end this war will narrow his options. Ideally, the Gulf states would like things to go back to how they were a month ago, but too much has happened and Iran is now in no mood to back down. Trump's options may be about to multiply with the arrival of around 5,000 US Marines in the region, along with paratroopers from the US 82nd Airborne Division - but there are risks here, too. There are a number of locations they could be deployed to: from Iran's oil export terminal at Kharg Island, to Iran's coast in Hormuzgan province, to the Bab El Mandeb Strait at the southern entrance to the Red Sea. Or they could be just to exert more bargaining pressure on Tehran. But any ground operation carries a greater chance of US casualties - deeply unpopular at home - and risks drawing the US deeper into a conflict many are calling "a war of choice". The continued survival of the Islamic Republic regime has emboldened its members and its demands. It believes it has both time and geography on its side. The more the White House tells the world that Iran is desperate for a deal, the less inclined Iran is to make one. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A British woman detained in Iran has given a stark account of her life behind bars. Lindsay Foreman, from East Sussex, was detained by Iranian authorities in January 2025 while travelling the world with her husband Craig. Foreman, who is currently being held in Tehran's notorious Evin Prison, said her "heart breaks" for the Iranian people. Referring to the Iranian government's repeated violent crackdowns on protests, she said: "There is not one person in this prison who hasn't had a family member shot or killed." Her comments come during the war between Iran and the US and Israel which broke out on 28 February. "There isn't one person in this prison who hasn't had some part of their hometown destroyed [from the fighting]," she said. Foreman said, although she and her fellow inmates cannot really see out of the prison, they can hear "the whistling noise of missiles and hum of drones". She says that after some bombs, like bunker busters, the "ground shakes". "You can feel the depth and you think… that must have done some serious damage". "When the buildings shake, there is nowhere to go," Foreman continued. "These buildings are not designed for safety. There's no fire escape. There's no access to the outside for us. "If the building collapses, that will be the end for everyone." She said during the initial nightly US-Israeli strikes on the city the prisoners were "hiding under their beds". "People were hyperventilating, screaming. It is shocking," she said. During a phone call with her son Joe Bennett, from Folkestone in Kent, Foreman said the prisoners she was with were "so resilient, so tenacious". Ordinary Iranians have "an amazing culture of graceful kindness and absolute generosity", she said. Foreman says the prison's daily menu of "rice and gristle" is "repeated every single week". She said she had been able to buy basic goods, such as bread, flour and sugar, from a shop inside the facility, although it has been shut in recent days. Foreman says she has started running round the prison's concrete courtyard, which makes a lap of 55 metres (180 ft). "It's repetitive, but sometimes repetitive is good. You can sort of switch off a little bit." She also spends her time studying psychology and Persian (Farsi), according to the family. Foreman said that on Wednesday for the first time in months she had met with her husband Craig, who is also imprisoned in Iran. "We drank tea, we had a chat, and it was the best hour that you can have." But she added the situation was "exhausting". "There is no escape. So every day you wake up and think, I've got to get through another day." The couple were detained in Iran on charges of espionage – something the family denies. Brendan O'Hara, vice chair of the all-parliamentary group for arbitrary detention and hostage affairs, previously told the BBC the Foremans were "innocent victims of a geopolitical power struggle". The Scottish National Party MP likened them to "bargaining chips" between Iran's government and the US, UK and Israel. It is "absolutely outrageous" they have been detained, he added. Follow BBC Kent on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Hundreds of transport workers in the Philippines' capital Manila have gone on strike over rising fuel costs. Diesel and petrol prices have more than doubled since the Iran war broke out on 28 February - with the Philippines now in a state of national energy emergency. One 62-year-old driver in Manila told the BBC the situation was getting increasingly desperate, saying he had no food to support his five children and had not received any cash aid from the government. As the two-day strike started on Thursday a ship carrying more than 700,000 barrels of Russian crude oil arrived in the country. President Ferdinand Marcos' spokeswoman said. Press Secretary Claire Castro told reporters that the Sierra Leone-flagged Sara Sky arrived earlier this week with the crude shipment. Marcos had promised to look for new sources of oil as the country had been relying on supplies that pass through the Strait of Hormuz for 98% of its requirements. The transport coalitions leading the strike have laid out sweeping demands - from scrapping fuel taxes and rolling back oil prices, to abandoning deregulation and introducing state controls. They are also pushing for fare increases and higher wages. Groups of protesters gathered in different areas across the capital on Thursday morning, holding signs and calling for the government to do more to help. Many of them were drivers of jeepneys - mini-buses known for their cheap fares. Motorcycle and car ride-hailing drivers were also among those who earlier said they would join protests, according to local reports. Some said they had not received the payout of 5,000 pesos ($83; £62) that the Department of Social Welfare and Development had said certain drivers would be eligible for. "I lined up for more than five hours yesterday for the cash aid from the government, but my name was not there," said 62-year-old Guillermo Japole, adding that he had received "no cash aid, no earnings, no food for the family". Guillermo, whose five children are in school, says his family is on the edge of being evicted from their rental home. Another driver, 28-year-old Anjo Lilac similarly said he had not received any aid. He brought his daughter Hannah to the protest. "No one will look after her since my wife got a temporary job," he explained. "It [financial aid] will help us - for food, house rent and most especially the milk for our baby." Some jeepney drivers told the BBC they might go back to their hometowns to look for other jobs. "It feels like we are being choked. It's really tough. We don't know where can we get money to provide for our families," said Ronnie Rillosa, 58, who has been a jeepney driver for 30 years. "We don't need cash aid if the government will cut the prices of fuel, food, electricity, water." The effects of the planned two-day strike are already being felt by Manila's commuters. This is one of Asia's most congested cities, where commuters sometimes spend hours getting to work. Arnold Irinco was part of a line of commuters on Thursday morning who were queuing up for a free ride provided by the government. The 52-year-old liaison officer told the BBC that he had been waiting for 30 minutes. He added, however, that he understood why drivers had gone on strike. "I do understand what the protesters are fighting for," he said. "This is their livelihood, they had mouths to feed, they need to live. As a commuter, I need to understand their situation as well." Earlier on Wednesday, Marcos also signed a law authorising him to temporarily suspend or cut the excise tax on petroleum products when the average Dubai crude oil price reaches or exceeds $80 (£59) per barrel for a month. Since hostilities in the Middle East began, the government has offered subsidies to transport drivers, reduced ferry services, and implemented a four-day work week for civil servants to save fuel. A national state of energy emergency was also put it place on Tuesday, giving the government the legal authority to impose measures to ensure energy stability and protect the broader economy. The Philippines is the first country to declare this amid the US-Israel war with Iran. A committee has been formed to oversee the orderly distribution of fuel, food, medicines and other essential goods, and the government has been empowered to directly purchase fuel or petroleum products to shore up its supplies. One of the country's main labour coalitions, the Kilusang Mayo Uno (KMU), strongly criticised the emergency declaration, calling it an "admission" that the government failed to address the oil crisis. KMU had earlier accused the administration of downplaying the situation, saying claims that "everything is normal" were misleading. The coalition also raised concerns about what it described as "anti-worker provisions" in the executive order - particularly clauses that could restrict activities seen as disrupting economic activity, including strikes. But tycoon Manuel V. Pangilinan, who chairs several major utilities companies, backed the emergency powers. In a statement, he said his companies are feeling the strain of rising energy costs and warned that the crisis was beginning to affect business operations. Pangilinan added, however, that the government "should have every option" available to steer the economy through what he described as a difficult period. Additional reporting by the BBC's Suranjana Tewari The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
India's fertiliser supplies are under pressure after disruptions to shipping routes due to the war in the Middle East, raising concerns about lower farm produce and higher food prices. India, the world's second-largest fertiliser user after China, depends heavily on imports of both raw materials and finished products - much of which comes from the Gulf, passing through the Strait of Hormuz, where shipping has been disrupted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said his government has taken measures to ensure fertiliser supplies are not affected and to protect farmers from any impact. Analysts say current stocks are enough for the upcoming sowing season, but this may change if the war stretches on. Nitrogen fertilisers such as urea - the most widely used in India - are crucial for farmers because many major food crops, including rice and wheat, cannot absorb adequate nitrogen directly from the air. India uses nearly 40 million tonnes of urea annually, supported by government subsidies, and supply disruptions could affect planting decisions. Farmers in northern states of Punjab and Haryana - which are major grain-producing regions - say they are not yet feeling the stress as the key sowing season (June-July) approaches. They typically start buying urea for this season from May. Currently, supplies are available through farmer cooperatives as well as warehouses run by manufacturers and distributors, but there are worries about the future. "We don't know how long the stock will last if the war stretches any further," said Manpreet Singh Grewal, president of a farmers' collective linked to Punjab Agricultural University. India had urea stocks of about 6.2 million tonnes as of 19 March, according to government data. Fertiliser use peaks during the June-to-September monsoon crop season, which analysts say the current stocks should be able to support under normal conditions. Some experts warn that the situation could worsen if disruptions continue. India's fertiliser production is "surely going to be impacted" because of the disruption, Siraj Hussain, a former federal secretary of agriculture and farmers' welfare in India, told the BBC. "The government should be preparing for a shortage of urea and other fertilisers for the monsoon harvest." He points out that in many parts of India, farmers use more urea than recommended, applying "more nutrients than crops can absorb". "This means a temporary shortage may not significantly affect yields in those areas. However, supplies would need to be ensured in regions where fertiliser use is lower, as crops in those areas could be more vulnerable," he says. Executives at two fertiliser companies, who did not want to be identified, told the BBC that shortages could emerge later in the season if the conflict continues - though the timing and scale would depend on how long supply disruptions persist. Natural gas is the main raw material used to make urea and India imports about 85% of it, mostly from the Gulf region. "Up to four weeks [of supply disruptions] are absorbable via local production or imports from other regions. Anything more than that would become more concerning," Alberto Persona, director of fertiliser and sustainability analytics at S&P Global Energy, told the BBC. Fertiliser plants in India are getting only around 70% of their gas needs currently, following a government order issued earlier this month. Industry insiders say this has led to some manufacturers cutting production. To be sure, the supply squeeze is not limited to India. Global fertiliser prices have risen sharply in recent weeks, with urea prices climbing and gas prices across Asia increasing. Higher costs and reduced availability may lead some farmers to cut fertiliser use - even though its immediate impact on output is likely to be limited. "The risk on crop yields is genuinely small for the next crop season, but becomes increasingly important for the future ones," Persona said. Experts add that any movement in food prices may depend more on market expectations than immediate changes in crop output. "The real problem with prices is that they are not always driven by market fundamentals - expectations play an important role," Persona said. Modi has said India has taken steps to increase domestic fertiliser production and diversify import sources to reduce reliance on a few countries. On Wednesday, Agriculture Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan asked officials to ensure an equitable and uninterrupted supply of fertilisers. The crisis may also increase the government's subsidy burden, says Hussain, as higher global prices push up the cost of supplying fertilisers at controlled rates to farmers. Now, much depends on how long the conflict continues, with analysts saying supply chains could stabilise within weeks if shipping resumes at the normal pace. Follow BBC News India on Instagram, YouTube, X and Facebook. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. Dawn Fearns says the custard slice tour is also a nostalgic reminder of her childhood and late mother. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iranian tourists with valid visas will be banned from visiting Australia for the next six months over concerns they may be unable or unlikely to return home once their visas expire. "Decisions about permanent stays in Australia should be deliberate decisions of the government, not a random consequence of who had booked a holiday," Home Affairs Minister Tony Burke said on Wednesday. The move, which comes into force on Thursday, will affect about 6,800 Iranian visa holders. Some exceptions have been made including for the partners and children of Australian citizens. Some MPs and refugee advocates have called the decision a "moral failure" and warned it sets a "dangerous precedent". The Australian government introduced legislation to block visa holders from nominated countries from visiting earlier this month, on the same day it granted humanitarian visas to seven members of the Iranian women's football delegation. Five later returned to Iran. Burke said in a statement that the government was "acting in the national interest amid rapidly changing global conditions", noting that the measure would allow "time to assess the situation properly, while still allowing flexibility in limited cases". "Sympathetic consideration" may be given to the parents of Australian citizens, Burke said. The step was taken in consultation with the Australian-Iranian community, he added. The measure does not apply to citizens from any other country. Jana Favero, Deputy CEO of the Asylum Seeker Resource Centre, described the move as a "massive betrayal of the Iranian community, and a breathtaking moral failure". "In the moment that people need safety the most and their country is being torn apart, the (Anthony) Albanese government is slamming the door closed on people from Iran," Favero said. Independent MP Zali Steggall said the laws underpinning the ban gave the government "sweeping, unchecked" powers and ought to be amended. "Invalidating lawfully obtained visas undermines confidence in our entire migration system and sets a dangerous precedent," she said. The Australian Greens party said the measure "puts the lie to the pretence that [the] Labor [government] is supporting the illegal US and Israeli war on Iran to help the Iranian people". "Today, we see with 100% clarity what the (Anthony) Albanese government thinks of the safety of the Iranian people as they shut the door on protection for people with a visa to come here," Greens Senator David Shoebridge said. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Double-murderer Dezi Freeman evaded capture for seven months in the bush but police believe he had help. Australians lose more money to gambling, per capita, than anywhere else in the world. Lawyers for Naveed Akram had argued his mother, brother and sister live in "constant fear". Anthony Albanese used a rare TV address to tell Australians that the "months ahead may not be easy" amid the global effects of the war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump appears increasingly interested in finding an off-ramp with Iran, or what he calls "winding down" the war. But his exit strategy is unclear - and Trump's mixed messaging suggests he's still undecided about what would work best: ramping up the conflict to try to end it as quickly as possible, or pushing for a negotiated settlement with Tehran. On Tuesday, Trump signalled the US may pursue both strategies at once. In a matter of hours, the Pentagon ordered ground troops to the region, and US negotiators sent the Iranian regime a new 15-point peace plan. By Wednesday, the White House was urging Iran to accept the deal while threatening to hit the country harder than ever if it didn't, stoking further confusion about Trump's intentions. As the war escalates, there's growing concern inside the administration that Trump doesn't have a concrete plan for what comes next, according to former US officials and outside allies close to the White House, some of whom spoke on the condition of anonymity. "They're very uneasy because it's clear that Trump hasn't thought through all of this," said a former senior administration official who served under Trump in his first term in office, and who asked not to be named. On Wednesday, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said: "President Trump does not bluff, and he is prepared to unleash hell." She added: "Iran should not miscalculate again." Iran responded by rejecting the peace proposal, sparking questions about whether the two countries were actually engaged in serious diplomatic talks. The head-spinning developments typified Trump's approach to a war that has engulfed the Middle East, roiled the global economy, and driven a wedge between different factions of the Republican Party. White House officials insist the US is dictating the course of events in Iran. But Iran's rejection of the peace plan underscored the reality that Trump can't fully control the direction of the conflict. Beyond Trump's broader war aims, it's an open question how the US can secure the Strait of Hormuz, through which flows approximately 20 percent of global oil and gas exports. More than three weeks into the war, the US still has no answer for stopping Iranian attacks on commercial vessels in the waterway that have sent prices soaring - and so far Trump's calls for Nato allies and others to help have gone unheeded. "The problem for the president is the Strait of Hormuz. If he leaves it in Iranian hands, it's going to be hard for him to claim victory," said Stephen Hadley, who served as the national security adviser to President George W. Bush. Trump's failure to "consult with other countries is one of the reasons why the administration is having so much trouble getting allies on board to help," he added. The uncertainty in Washington surrounding the next phase of the war was heightened on Wednesday as new details about the administration's proposed peace plan came into view. House Speaker Mike Johnson echoed the White House's confidence when he told reporters on Capitol Hill he thinks the US is "wrapping up" the military operation. "And I think it'll be done in short order." Some of his Republicans colleagues, however, started publicly sounding the alarm over news that Trump had ordered the deployment of more than 1,000 paratroopers to Iran. Congresswoman Nancy Mace of South Carolina criticised the troop deployment after defence officials held a closed-door briefing. "Just walked out of a House Armed Services briefing on Iran. Let me repeat: I will not support troops on the ground in Iran, even more so after this briefing," Mace wrote in a post on X. The rare rebuke from a Republican lawmaker highlighted the divide between anti-interventionist MAGA supporters and hawks in the party who back the war effort. Later on Wednesday, House Armed Services Committee Chairman Mike Rogers told reporters that the Pentagon wasn't giving lawmakers enough details on the war, CBS News reported. The subdued reaction to the US peace proposal among Republicans in Congress further underscored the anxiety that many in the party feel over the war heading into a challenging midterm election cycle. The peace plan reportedly included demands for Iran to abandon its nuclear programme, limit its ballistic missiles and allow the Strait of Hormuz to reopen, among other conditions. It seemed to resemble the peace proposals that US negotiators Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner - who are leading the efforts with Iran - have used in peace talks in Gaza and Ukraine. Those plans also included multi-point proposals that were later changed as negotiations evolved. The plan was leaked after Trump last week threatened to escalate the war in 48 hours if Iran did not agree to reopen the Strait of Hormuz. Trump changed course on Monday, saying he decided to suspend the new attack for five days because Iran and the US were making "major progress" in reaching a deal to end the war. But even before Iran responded, Middle East experts warned that the maximalist demands would be viewed as nonstarters by the regime in Tehran. The regime is said to be wary of US efforts to negotiate after the administration suspended talks over Iran's nuclear programme last month before launching the war days later. When the Iranian response arrived, it made clear Tehran believes it has as much if not more control over the direction of the war than the US, despite Trump's insistence that the US has already won. An Iranian official quoted anonymously on state TV dismissing the plan said Tehran had its own demands for a ceasefire deal. "Iran will end the war when it decides to do so and when its own conditions are met," the official said. Speaking on state TV on Wednesday, Iran's foreign minister, Abbas Araghchi, said there were no negotiations taking place between the two countries. Araghchi also said Iran did not plan to open the Strait of Hormuz to Western ships allied with the US. "There is no reason to allow the ships of our enemies and their allies to pass," he said. The White House may be betting that sending ground troops to Iran could pressure the regime to reopen the Strait of Hormuz and eventually lead it to surrender altogether. But it's unclear how a limited troop deployment by elements of the 82nd Airborne Division will impact the strait or change the broader course of the conflict. Military experts said the force would likely focus on helping create the conditions to reopen the critical waterway. One potential scenario involves the US seizing control of Kharg Island, a small island in the Persian Gulf that serves as the main hub for Iranian oil exports. "Sending ground troops would give the US major leverage and give us better control over" the Strait of Hormuz, said Miad Maleki, a former Treasury Department official who helped oversee the implementation of US sanctions on Iran's oil sector. But "it'll pose an increased threat to our forces, so that's a risk we'd be taking." Escalating the war by sending in ground troops is further proof that the administration "has no articulated strategy" for the war, said Jason Campbell, a former US defence official during the Obama administration and Trump's first term in office. "What we're seeing here is not the result of a long thought-out plan with clear objectives," he said. "It resembles more of a pick-up game of which units are available to me now?" One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
It was once a humble outpost in the world of global aviation, a dusty overnight halt for luxury flying boats making the arduous journey from the UK to far-flung parts of the British Empire, such as India and Australia. By the 1960s, it had a simple runway made of desert sand, used as a refuelling stop by airliners en route to arguably more exotic destinations. Yet today, Dubai is one of the key pillars of the industry, and Dubai International Airport (DXB) is its beating heart. In 2024, more than 92 million passengers made their way through its gleaming, marble-floored halls and sparkling, brightly lit shopping malls. That makes DXB the busiest airport in the world for international passengers - far outstripping London Heathrow, for example, which accommodated just under 83 million. Nor is Dubai alone within the Gulf as a major hub. Rival airports in Abu Dhabi and the Qatari capital, Doha, are not quite as busy, but they still handled some 87 million passengers between them. Under normal circumstances, these three Gulf airports together handle more than 3,000 flights every day, the majority of them operated by the local carriers, Emirates, Etihad and Qatar Airways. But the conflict in the Middle East has had a dramatic impact on global aviation. First, there was the paralysis of flights through some of the busiest airspace in the world, leaving aircraft at major hub airports grounded and hundreds of thousands of passengers stranded. Air traffic in the region remains heavily disrupted. Then there is fuel. With supplies from refineries in the Gulf choked off after Iran effectively blocked the Strait of Hormuz, it has become a serious concern. The region normally accounts for about half of Europe's jet fuel imports, and fears of scarcity have caused prices to double since the start of the conflict. Some carriers have already begun cutting flights in response. But while these issues are likely to dominate the industry's thinking in the short-term - and will probably lead to higher prices in the months to come - there's also a question mark over what the longer-term implications will be. In particular, insiders are asking what it all means for the hugely successful "Gulf model" of aviation - which has been widely credited with transforming long-distance travel and making it cheaper. And that has serious implications for airlines, passengers and businesses in the Middle East that rely on the region's abundant airline connections. The Gulf hubs, normally well-oiled machines, shuddered to a halt following the first US-Israeli strikes on Iran in late February. With airspace closed across the region, aircraft were grounded. Some planes that had already taken off were forced to turn back. Tens of thousands of passengers were left stranded in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Qatar, many of them people who had only arrived in the region to change planes. Meanwhile, both the United Arab Emirates and Qatar were being targeted by retaliatory drone and missile strikes from Iran, creating a tense and fearful environment for those who were trapped in airports and hotels. Many more passengers around the world were unable to travel on the services they had booked, because their flights were due to go via one of the Gulf hubs. They were left scrambling to find alternatives. Emirates and Etihad did begin operating a limited service to get people home within days, and Qatar Airways followed suit shortly afterwards. Other carriers from outside the region also put on flights. Some governments, including the UK's, chartered their own aircraft to help people leave the region. Since then, the situation has stabilised somewhat, with all three major carriers operating regular flights from their hubs. But schedules remain limited and prone to disruption. According to analysts at Cirium, more than 30,000 services to the Middle East as a whole have been cancelled since the start of the conflict. Much of this took place in a harsh glare of publicity, as travellers took to social media or spoke to news networks about their experiences and frustrations. Among them was Ian Scott, who had been flying from Melbourne to Venice via Doha. His outward flight from the Qatari capital was forced to turn back in mid-air, and he subsequently had to spend several days sheltering in a hotel, before choosing to spend two days driving through the desert to Oman. From there, he was eventually able to get a flight out. He now says that in future, he would avoid flying via the Gulf hubs, even once hostilities have ceased – because he has "no faith" the region's troubles would end there. And it's the verdicts of travellers like Ian that will be most worrying for the hubs' operators. Even though Dubai, in particular, has developed into a major tourism and business destination in its own right, more than half of travellers through the Gulf hubs are not there to stay. They simply want to change planes. Last year 47% of Dubai's passengers were there to board connecting flights, compared with 54% of Abu Dhabi's and 74% of Doha's, according to OAG, an aviation data firm. And this is the essence of the Gulf aviation model. Passengers are flown in on long-haul services from cities around the world, to meet carefully timed connections, which can then take them on to a wide range of equally far-flung destinations. It means they can travel from Boston to Bali, or Amsterdam to Antananarivo with a single stop and a minimum of fuss. This contrasts with the conventional "hub-and-spoke" model, which involves flying passengers into hub airports from a regional, short-haul network, where they can transfer onto large planes for long-haul services on busy international routes. It is also different from "point-to-point" flying, which sees passengers travelling on direct long-distance routes between secondary cities, generally aboard smaller aircraft. The Gulf carriers' approach combines some of the convenience point-to-point gives passengers with the economies of scale for airlines associated with the hub-and-spoke system. It is a unique model and one that is very dependent on geography. "Within three hours flying time of the Gulf, you have the Middle East, the Indian subcontinent, verging on China. It's a huge market," explains James Hogan, a former chief executive of Abu Dhabi-based Etihad Airways. He ran the carrier for 11 years - from 2006-2017 - overseeing a period of rapid expansion for the company, which began operations in 2003. "The Gulf carriers were able to build a very strong network, not only of hub cities, capital cities – but also the major secondary cities and third cities, which enabled one-stop flying," he says. Andrew Charlton, managing director of consultants Aviation Advocacy agrees. "The Gulf is just in that place where, with the current technology, you can get to practically anywhere on Earth," he says. And so, in the early years of the century, that put the region's airlines in an ideal position to take advantage of rapid growth in markets such as China and India, which he believes European and American carriers initially overlooked. "The Middle East was suddenly in exactly the right place for the emerging market, which was well east of the Atlantic," he says. The Gulf carriers, as relative newcomers to the industry, were also able to invest in modern fleets ideally suited to the kind of model they were building. Initially, the twin-engine Boeing 777 was favoured for its 300-seat capacity and range of more than 7,000 nautical miles, while later, the Airbus A380 superjumbo also became a useful tool for carrying more than 500 passengers to and from congested airports where take-off and landing slots were scarce. "The major differentiator was starting with a clean sheet of paper. That was the secret sauce," explains Mr Hogan. "You were able to create a service proposition that couldn't be matched by carriers in more traditional markets, whether that be the USA, Europe or Australasia." As a result, the Gulf carriers and the hubs they serve have grown rapidly since the start of the millennium, becoming a key junction for long-distance aviation. "It is the pivot point for passengers that arrive from Europe and North America… who are scheduled to connect onwards on another flight to Australia, South East Asia, Singapore, Hong Kong or the Indian subcontinent," explains John Grant, senior analyst at OAG. "It is a hugely efficient, very effective operation that sees 90-100 flights arriving in a one-hour time window and then departing somewhere else an hour or two later." All of this has also had a significant impact on the cost of long-haul aviation. "Competition drove down prices, and the Gulf carriers were a competitive game changer," says Mr Charlton. "They added capacity to long-haul markets, they created long-haul markets… so of course they drove airfares down." But the conflict in the Middle East has thrown all this into disarray, according to Kristian Coates Ulrichsen, a Middle East expert at the Baker Institute in Texas. He says a long drawn-out conflict could deter travellers from passing through the Gulf – and have a long-term impact on the way its airlines operate. "Of course the business model is going to be called into question the longer it goes on," he says. "If people don't feel secure about travelling because they feel they'll get stuck, or that at any time the airport might be closed because of a drone, even if it's intercepted, that will do a lot of damage." The key question is how much this has damaged the Gulf's reputation as a focal point for global aviation – and whether its model has suffered lasting damage. According to Charlton, a great deal will depend on how long the conflict goes on for. If it is over quickly, he says, the Gulf carriers will recover lost ground quickly because "they will just flood the market with cheap airfares". But the more it drags on, he says, "the more passengers will find alternate ways to fly", with rival carriers offering connections via alternative hubs such as Singapore, Bangkok, Hong Kong or Tokyo. Meanwhile the long-term loss of capacity normally provided by the Gulf airlines, he says, would inevitably drive prices up. "Did the Gulf carriers cause lower fares? Yes they did. Take Gulf carriers out of the equation, air fares are going to go up, as sure as eggs are eggs." European airlines have already responded to the crisis in the Middle East by changing their own schedules, and adding flights that avoid the need for a stopover in the Gulf. British Airways, for example, has introduced a number of extra services each week to Bangkok and Singapore, while Lufthansa and Air France KLM have also added extra flights to Asia. But according to Willie Walsh, the Director General of the International Air Transport Association (IATA), European airlines simply do not have the resources to replace the Gulf carriers, who normally account for 9.5% of global capacity, to any great extent. Speaking to journalists at an event in Paris in mid-March, he said "there is no way the capacity provided by carriers in the Gulf can be replaced by European carriers", adding that he expected Gulf aviation to recover quickly once the conflict has eased. It is worth mentioning that the future of the Gulf model has been questioned in the past, not least during the Covid pandemic, when some experts suggested carriers reliant on long-haul routes and transit traffic, using fleets of large aircraft, were not agile enough to respond to changing circumstances. In reality, the recovery was rapid, with Emirates, Etihad and Qatar Airways all showing healthy profits in recent years. "The aviation industry has seen Sars, it's seen Covid, it's seen geopolitical events in various parts of the world," says Grant. "It's seen stock market crashes, and it bounces back." There is, however, a great deal at stake, and not just for the aviation industry. In recent years, Dubai, in particular, has moved away from simply being a transit destination to become a hub for business and tourism in its own right. "The Gulf states have always had very strong oil and gas sectors, but diversification has always been a key priority for their leadership," explains the former Etihad CEO, James Hogan. "With the ability to create aviation hubs, there was a major move in that diversification, because of the catalytic effect of aviation." Ulrichsen agrees. The United Arab Emirates, he believes, has established itself as "a place where people aspirationally want to go and live and work and do business. And so much of that model is based on the attractiveness of Dubai". That prosperity, however, could potentially be put at risk if air traffic to the region fails to recover quickly, with the tourism sector looking particularly exposed. "My intuition is this will have a lasting impact… because of the safety perception you have in your mind," says Johannes Thomas, chief executive of the travel specialist Trivago. He believes it will take "maybe two to three years" before those safety concerns are fully overcome. But Hogan is far more optimistic. "This is a major crisis, but it will be resolved at a point in time", he insists. "I've seen it over the years. Some people in the early days may be apprehensive, but travellers will come back. "I'm very bullish about what the Gulf has to offer." There's no question that, in the short term at least, the conflict in the Middle East has come as a severe blow to the major Gulf carriers and the hubs they rely on. The region is now likely to be viewed with some trepidation by tourists and business travellers alike Overcoming that reputational damage can only really begin once hostilities have eased. If the Gulf can resume its role as a junction to the world, then the industry will be able to carry on much as before - but if that isn't possible, the implications for long-haul aviation around the globe could be profound. BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. Emma Barnett and John Simpson bring their pick of the most thought-provoking deep reads and analysis, every Saturday. Sign up for the newsletter here The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Cornwall's Chamber of Commerce president says the route generated most of the airport's revenue. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The UK's biggest energy firm has seen a 50% rise in solar panel sales after the US-Israel war with Iran pushed oil and gas prices up, its boss told the BBC. Greg Jackson, head of Octopus Energy, described a "huge jolt" in sales of solar panels and heat pumps, as well as enquiries about electric vehicles and chargers, so far this month compared to February. Jackson said households would "very likely" see higher energy bills from July when Ofgem's price cap, which is currently shielding millions of households, is reset. He told the BBC's Big Boss Interview podcast that Octopus was staying optimistic about the impacts of the conflict, but planning on it being "more serious". Wholesale oil and gas prices have surged since the war broke out on 28 February, disrupting the production and transportation of energy across the Middle East. Higher energy prices may lead to a rise in the cost of other goods around the world, but it often shows up first at the fuel pump. Jackson said the UK had experienced a "much more dramatic increase in energy costs than we are likely to see here" after Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. He acknowledged it "couldn't be more confusing" for people that the price cap will lower prices for three months from April, while at the same time people are being warned the crisis will likely lead to future energy bill rises. He said this had pushed households to think about renewable energy. He said customers were saying "Look, we've just got to do something about it" with Octopus seeing a 50% rise in solar panel sales and 30% rise in heat pump sales, while enquiries about EVs were up more than a third, and chargers by about a fifth. This is based on comparing the first three weeks of February and March, with Jackson saying orders and enquiries were normally fairly steady month on month. He was also asked about recent comments to the BBC by Larry Fink, chief executive of the world's biggest asset management company, BlackRock, comparing progress on energy in China to Europe where he just sees "a lot of talk and no action". Jackson said Europe was "torturing" itself over discussions about moving too fast or slow on green energy, and North Sea drilling. China, however, was just "getting on with it", he said, citing its state oil company's aim to get rid of all petrol stations by 2040. "They're doing it because it gives them more and more resilience, more and more energy security against the kind of crisis we're seeing yet again in the Middle East and in the global fossil fuel industries," he said. He brushed aside suggestions that more oil drilling in the North Sea would make the UK more resilient. This would make only a "tiny difference", he said, adding the fossil fuel industry will never have lots of spare capacity which is why prices go "through the roof" when there is a supply crunch. He said the most important thing is to get the cost of electricity down in the UK, which would enable more people to use EVs and heat pumps. While EVs would once have been regarded as expensive options, he said there was more parity now between petrol and electric models and an emerging second-hand market. The divide where lower income households were priced out of affording EVs is "disappearing", he added. In the wide-ranging interview, Jackson also cited the role of the welfare state in supporting his "incredible single mum" who was studying while bringing him and his siblings up. He said the benefits bill was often seen as too high, and there was a need to find ways to get people into work. "And exactly as it happened for my mum, be a sort of an enabler to go on to great things," he continued.  "So I do think it's really important that we have some of the social structures that let people get through tough times in order to become contributors." Jackson also touched on Artificial Intelligence (AI), warning the "relentless pace" in advancement could leave humans with very little that they are better at than machines. We must be ready for an "incredible degree of change", he said, adding: "There's going to be a lot less if anything that's unique about people and we're going to have to really work hard to work out how we make that good for us." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
When Donald Trump said this week that the US and Iran had held "very good and productive conversations" about ending war, Iran's response was quick and blunt. Iranian officials denied any talks had taken place. One military spokesperson even mocked the claim, saying Americans had been "negotiating with themselves". The gap is clear. Washington talks about progress; Tehran rejects it outright. But this is not just a disagreement; it reflects deep mistrust. That mistrust comes from recent events. Over the past year, talks between the two sides have twice raised hopes of easing tensions, with the last round said by their Omani host to have addressed key US concerns about Iran's nuclear programme. Both times, they were followed by Israeli and US military strikes on Iran. From Iran's point of view, talks have not reduced the possibility of war; they have come just before it. That is why Trump's claims are being treated with suspicion. But Iran's denial does not necessarily mean it is against talks. There is more going on. Even officials who support diplomacy are under pressure. Trying negotiations again, would be risky. There is no clear sign that this time would be different. This helps explain the tough tone from Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi and other officials. Even before Trump's post on Truth Social on Monday, Araghchi had said Iran was not seeking talks or a ceasefire and was ready to continue the fight. The head of Iran's Government Information Council dismissed the 15-point proposal, saying: "Trump's words are lies and should not be paid attention to." But this does not mean the door is fully closed. Later on Wednesday, Araghchi neither confirmed or rejected the proposal outright. He told state TV that "different ideas" had been passed on to the country's senior leaders - and "if a position needs to be taken, it will certainly be determined". He also said Iran's policy for now was to continue "defending", and that Tehran "no intention of negotiating for now". The current situation in Iran, with ongoing strikes and damage to key infrastructure, is not sustainable. The strong language may be more about setting conditions than rejecting diplomacy altogether. Iran's internal politics make things more complicated. President Masoud Pezeshkian, backed by more moderate groups, has taken a careful approach. Hardliners are far more opposed to talks. At the same time, even moderate voices are finding it hard to argue for negotiations in the current situation. There is also pressure from outside the government. Some opposition groups reject any deal with the Islamic Republic, and have supported strikes in the hope that the war would lead to its collapse and regime change. Meanwhile, civil society and human rights activists worry that an agreement could give the authorities more space to crack down at home, especially as restrictions have already tightened during the war. Iran's position is not just about ideology; it is also about strategy. Since the conflict escalated, Tehran has shown it can disrupt global energy flows through the Strait of Hormuz. Closing or limiting this route has affected not just oil and gas markets but wider supply chains, too. This gives Iran leverage. A tough public stance helps keep that pressure in place. Reports about Trump's proposal, passed to Iran by Pakistan, suggest the terms would be difficult for Iran to accept. They include strict limits on Iran's nuclear capabilities, missile programmes, and support for regional allies, in return for sanctions relief and help with civilian nuclear energy. Even for those open to a deal, the bigger issue is trust. Past agreements have not lasted. The 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and world powers, reached after years of talks, eventually collapsed when the US under Trump left the deal unilaterally. Many in Tehran doubt any new deal would hold. So, the gap between the two sides keeps growing. For Washington, talking about progress may serve political and diplomatic goals. For Tehran, denying talks helps protect its position and also reflects real doubts. For now, the gap between US optimism and Iranian rejection is likely to remain. Closing it will take more than words. It will require real guarantees that talks will not once again lead to more conflict - something Trump may also need to show at home, after promising to end, not start, wars in the Middle East. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Zahra is cleaning the windows of her flat for Nowruz, the 3,000-year-old festival marking the arrival of spring and with it the start of the Iranian New Year. A grandmother living in a Tehran suburb, Zahra would normally be looking forward to a Nowruz family reunion. But not in this time of war. With the internet blocked by the regime she struggles to maintain contact. "My children are restless. Not being able to hear their voices is driving me insane. This is truly the height of cruelty and oppression for a mother." Zahra is an Iranian voice whose name we have changed to protect her from official retaliation. One of those Individuals who would face persecution if their identities became known to their own government. They want to speak to the world but can only do so if we disguise who they are and their exact whereabouts. Those secretly sending material to the foreign media know how risky it can be. Quoting the words of Iran's ministry of intelligence, the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency said 10 people were recently arrested for "co-operating with foreign media" and two others for "creating psychological insecurity in society through cyberspace". This is the reality of life in Iran at war - nearly four weeks since the country was attacked by the US and Israel. But using trusted sources on the ground, the BBC has been able to obtain testimony from a range of Iranians in different parts of the country. What emerges is a picture of anger, grief, and growing fear as the number of reported deaths climbs towards 3,000 - more than half of those civilians. Outside Zahra's home, the residue of "black rain" left after US and Israeli strikes on oil depots covers the ground. "Everything in the courtyard had been blackened by oil. We no longer have visits or gatherings, but symbolically, we must prepare ourselves, clean our homes, and welcome Nowruz. Perhaps this dark night will finally give way to dawn." When asked if she wants a ceasefire, Zahra is scornful. "This regime has inflicted so much pain on us over the past 47 years leaving countless mothers without their children, more than even the war itself did. So, I prefer that there be no ceasefire until this entire regime is gone." The government's supporters routinely fill the streets to denounce the US-Israeli campaign. In the current climate of censorship and the strain imposed by war it is impossible to gauge how much popular support there is for regime change. The brutal massacre of thousands of anti-regime demonstrators in January has left a major trauma. Samar [not a real name] - a student in Tehran - says that because the government's most fervent supporters believe in a "culture of martyrdom" there is a risk of civil war if clerical power is overthrown. "It means they're willing to die but not let the regime fall - because they think its fall means the end of their religion. That's how effectively the regime does brainwashing." Samar shares the popular view that for every senior official "they've reportedly assigned three to seven successors. Like a hydra - you cut one head off, another grows back. They won't surrender any time soon." She wants to see the end of the current regime - but stressed the range of factors that motivate its support base and make change so difficult. "They [the regime] created several different lines of thinking. And every supporter is attached to one of them. "One is what I just said [religion]. Some are influenced through patriotism and the idea of an enemy. Some through fear of the country breaking apart." Asked if she is hopeful, Samar replies: "Wherever I look, it's a mess. Even if Pahlavi [the son of Iran's last Shah] comes and tries to form a new government, I think these people will start suicide attacks. They won't back down." Our sources in Iran were also able to interview a young man who is due to undertake military service. In his early 20s, Ali [not a real name] recently lost a close friend in an air strike on the army base where he was stationed. "I heard that they had bombed that place. After that, I found out that my friend had been killed. I could not believe it myself. I called the other friends, and they told me, 'Yes that friend of ours has been killed.'" Ali spoke of another friend who narrowly escaped death, and another who had deserted. Every male over the age of 18 is required to serve. "You must go... They come after you. They take you from your house. If they see you outside the house, they take you with them," he says. But Ali says he will not serve. He is not an ideological young man. He simply doesn't want to be killed. "I definitely won't go because my life would be in danger. Whatever I can do, I will do so that I don't go into military service." For now, the state retains the repressive power, military capability and a strong enough support base to continue fighting. Any ceasefire will likely leave the current rulers in place and capable of surviving -  at least in the medium term. An escalating war could unleash a far more unpredictable dynamic for the regime and the people of Iran. Additional reporting by Alice Doyard and Josh Cheetham, BBC Verify. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran's foreign minister says the country is not currently negotiating with the US to end the war and "does not intend" to do so. Abbas Araghchi's comments came as US President Donald Trump's press secretary said talks were "ongoing" and "productive".  Araghchi said the US had been sending ideas via mediators - at one stage appearing to refer to a 15-point plan the US is reported to have passed to Iran. Without explicitly rejecting the plan outright, the foreign minister repeated some of the arguments earlier outlined by an unnamed Iranian official in a five-point counter-proposal. The war began on 28 February with US and Israeli air strikes, after which Iran widened hostilities by targeting American allies in the Gulf. According to Israel's Channel 12, Iran must fulfil a number of demands for the war to end. They mostly centre on the main rationale US officials have given for starting the war: to stop the country building nuclear weapons - an allegation that has not been supported and which Iran has always rejected - and to eliminate the threat of its missile programme. The proposals request that Iran must "commit never to pursue nuclear weapons", pledge to dismantle nuclear facilities and hand over the enriched amounts of uranium it possesses to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the UN nuclear watchdog, which is to monitor the issue going forward. According to the proposals, Iran would agree to limit its missile programme in range and quantity. Additionally, Iran would stop funding regional proxies - Hezbollah in Lebanon, Hamas in Gaza and the Houthis in Yemen. Iran would also be required to reopen the Strait of Hormuz so it could function as a "free maritime corridor". Closure of the strait - through which a fifth of the world's oil and gas supplies pass - has sent prices spiking and led to fears of recession in the world economy. All international sanctions would be lifted on Iran, the reported plan says. Full sanctions were reimposed last November after Iran suspended inspections of its nuclear facilities in the wake of Israeli and US bombing of several of its nuclear sites and military bases. Asked to confirm these details, Trump's press secretary said: "The White House never confirmed that full plan.  There are elements of truth to it, but some of the stories I read were not entirely factual". Iran's foreign minister said "some ideas" had been proposed to the country's senior leaders - and "if a position needs to be taken, it will certainly be determined". Araghchi's comments came hours after state-run Press TV cited an unnamed "senior political-security official" listing five conditions to end the war. They include a complete halt to "aggression and assassinations by the enemy". Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and his officials have often said they intend to "cut the head of the octopus". Several top Iranian officials have been killed since the first day of the war when a massive Israeli air strike on Tehran killed Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Other Iranian conditions include "concrete mechanisms to ensure that the war is not reimposed on the Islamic Republic", though it is unclear what guarantees could be provided and which countries would take part - or monitor their observation. On the economic front, Iran is also demanding the payment of war damages and reparations, as well as the right to remain solely in charge of the Strait of Hormuz. Crucially, Tehran wants Israel to end attacks on Iranian allies in the region. Israel has intensified its campaign against Hezbollah, announcing on Tuesday that its military would remain in a widened buffer zone inside Lebanon until attacks on northern Israel ceased. An unnamed Iranian official was cited by Press TV as saying these conditions were in addition to demands previously presented by Tehran during negotiations in Geneva, which took place in February, shortly before the war began. On Tuesday, Trump said Iran was "desperate" for talks and that Iranian negotiators had given the US a "very significant prize". The "present" was related to oil and gas, and the Strait of Hormuz, the US president said, without providing further details. Negotiations to end the war are likely to be led by Trump's peace envoys, Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner - the president's son-in-law. The reported US peace proposals look similar to the model followed by the envoys to end more than two years of fighting between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip. If that procedure is to be replicated, a ceasefire would have to be declared to enable negotiations on any draft. Israel's Channel 12 said the country's leaders might not be too happy to pause their attacks on Iran at this stage - Netanyahu had similar reservations about a ceasefire during the Gaza negotiations. Israel's Economy Minister, Nir Barkat, told the BBC it was unlikely Iran would agree to Trump's terms. Trump's proposals are reported to have been passed on to Iran by Pakistan. Turkey and Egypt are also thought to have been involved with efforts to end the war. Egypt's foreign minister said on Wednesday that he had an open line of communication with his Iranian counterpart Araghchi. It is unclear if these exchanges for part of the negotiations Trump and his officials have mentioned. Trump has not said who the US is talking to, but just that they are "the right people". Iran's new Supreme Leader, Mojtada Khamenei, who has not been seen since being wounded in the same attack that killed his father, is not believed to be among them. The current Iranian leadership is wary of engagement in any talks with the US - the current war began in the middle of negotiations to reach a new nuclear deal. Besides, US troops are now being sent to the region, with some suggestions they may be used to open the Strait of Hormuz or seize some territory in Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos says he is working to secure new sources of oil after he placed the country under a state of national energy emergency in response to the war in Iran. Marcos told Filipinos in a televised address that the government would procure one million barrels of oil to add to the current stock, which is good for 45 days. "We will have a flow of oil. Not just one delivery, not two deliveries, but a flow of oil-related products," he said. The Philippines, which imports 98% of its oil from the gulf, became the first country to declare an energy emergency after local diesel and petrol prices more than doubled in the country since the war broke out on 28 February. The US-Israel war with Iran and the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz - a key shipping route - have sent shock waves through global energy markets, causing shortages and price rises. Marcos said the emergency declaration late Tuesday would give the government the legal authority to impose measures to ensure energy stability and protect the broader economy. "Nothing is off the table. We are looking at everything we can do, whatever suggestion, whatever idea," he said. Philippine Ambassador to the US Jose Manuel Romualdez had told Reuters that Manila was working with Washington to secure exemptions that would allow the country to import oil from US-sanctioned countries. The Philippines is one of the US' closest allies in the Pacific. Under Marcos' order, a committee has been formed to oversee the orderly distribution of fuel, food, medicines, and other essential goods. The government has also been empowered to directly purchase fuel and petroleum products to shore up supplies. The declaration will remain in place for one year, unless it is extended or lifted by the president. It follows calls from several senators, who urged Marcos to acknowledge the "emergency-level" hardship faced by Philippine families due to soaring oil prices. The price of petrol and diesel spiked again on Tuesday, rising to more than double its pre-war level in February. One of the country's main labour coalitions, the Kilusang Mayo Uno (KMU) strongly criticised the emergency declaration, calling it an "admission" that the government failed to address the oil crisis. It also accused the administration of downplaying the situation earlier, saying previous claims that "everything is normal" were misleading. The KMU also raised concerns about what it describes as "anti-worker provisions" in the executive order - particularly clauses that could restrict activities seen as disrupting economic activity, including strikes. They warn this could effectively limit workers' ability to protest at a time when fuel prices are already hitting incomes. But tycoon Manuel V. Pangilinan, who chairs major utilities companies, has backed the emergency powers. In a statement, he said his companies are feeling the strain of rising energy costs and warned the crisis is beginning to affect business operations, but added that the government "should have every option" available to steer the economy through what he described as a difficult period. Transport workers and other groups including ride hailing services are planning a two-day strike on Thursday and Friday, reflecting wider anger over rising fuel costs and what they see as a slow or inadequate response from the government. Transport union coalition Piston - which is leading planned strike action - has laid out sweeping demands from scrapping fuel taxes and rolling back oil prices, to abandoning deregulation and introducing state controls. They are also pushing for fare increases and higher wages. Since hostilities in the Middle East began, the government has offered subsidies to transport drivers, reduced ferry services, and implemented a four-day work week for civil servants to save fuel. Earlier on Tuesday, Energy Secretary Sharon Garin said the country had about 45 days of fuel supply left. Garin told reporters the country would "temporarily" depend more heavily on coal-fired power plants to meet its energy needs in response to the surging costs of liquefied natural gas (LNG). Asia is particularly exposed to the blockade of the Strait of Hormuz. Last year, nearly 90% of all the oil and gas that passed through the waterway was bound for the region. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Daily Mail says the middle class will "foot the bill" for the chancellor's plan to subsidise higher energy costs because of the Iran conflict. It will target those on benefits and lower incomes. The Times believes the warm home discount, which reduces energy bills for poorer households, could be used as a model for the scheme. The Daily Telegraph quotes the head of Shell as saying that European governments could have to curb energy demand within days, to prevent the Middle East crisis from causing fuel shortages. A number of papers consider the prospect of talks to end the war in Iran. The Times says President Trump seems to have found someone to his liking to negotiate with. It says Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf is a hard-talking right-winger, reported to have made a fortune in property - formerly the mayor of Tehran and now the speaker of parliament. The Guardian considers whether he is a strongman or a pragmatic insider, and concludes that his "anointment" by Trump may at least send the message to Israel that he is not to be killed. The Daily Mirror says the six-time Olympic champion cyclist, Sir Chris Hoy, has launched a new campaign, urging men to get themselves tested for prostate cancer, after he was diagnosed with an incurable form of the disease. "It's easy, it's simple, it's painless - and it could save your life," was the message he delivered at an event in Glasgow, says the paper. The Telegraph reports that prostate cancer screening plans could be scaled back even further, despite growing calls for more testing to be rolled out. Many of the back-pages lead with the departure from Liverpool of the Egyptian striker Mo Salah after nine years. The Daily Express headlines its coverage with a phrase from his statement: "I'll Never Walk Alone." The i Paper says there's confidence in Saudi Arabia that he might join the Pro League there, as long as there's a de-escalation of conflict in the region. Sticking with football, the Daily Mail considers the "most expensive Three Lions World Cup shirts ever." At £90, the Daily Star suggests, "the shirt hits the fan!" Sign up for our morning newsletter and get BBC News in your inbox. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. A former US marine tells the BBC the priority of any recovery team would be to look for signs of life. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump had issued an ultimatum to Iran to reopen the Strait of Hormuz - the narrow passage whose closure has caused the price of oil to spike across the world - or face the wrath of the US in the shape of attacks on its power plants. Hours before it was due to expire on Monday, the US president said the threatened attacks were being paused for five days as Tehran and Washington were making "major" progress towards a deal to bring more than three weeks of US and Israeli air raids and Iranian retaliatory attacks to an end. Several Iranian top officials, such as Iran's parliament Speaker Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, said there were no talks - it was all "fake news". A day later, however, Trump said the US was talking to "the right people" in Iran. What the BBC is hearing from Iran is a glimpse into the country that remains largely cut off from the world as a result of a government-imposed internet outage. Whilst ordinary Iranians go to great lengths to find ways to link up with the outside world, such as paying high prices for satellite internet Starlink connections - itself illegal in the country - officials and some government supporters do have access to the internet. The latter have rallied for the government in the aftermath of the large-scale US and Israeli attacks. State media amplify this support showing nightly gatherings of loyal supporters across Iran. This group echoes the views of officials regarding talks with the US - and they are pretty unified. But there are also those who want to see the end of the Islamic government of Iran. They are divided. Whilst most would welcome an end to the war, many are wary of talks that could result in an agreement to keep the current leadership in place. Note: All names have been changed to protect the privacy of our interviewees. Kiana, a woman in her 20s, lives in the capital, Tehran. From day one, she has repeatedly said she wants the war to end, but now that the possibility of a ceasefire which would keep the leaders of the Islamic Republic in power is being mooted, she said she felt confused. "I don't know how to feel. If the war ends, the sounds of explosions will stop and the situation will become OK, but at the same time it's going to be us and a regime that's very weak," she says. "But they still have power over their own people. And they will become even more violent, I think." "I just want to blink and have it all done and over. I don't even want to think about the next steps," Kiana said. She has in mind the unprecedented government crackdown on demonstrations that swept across the country in December and January. At least 7,000 people were killed during that wave, including 6,508 protesters and 226 children, according to US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (Hrana). Armin, another Tehran resident in his 20s, said he wanted the war to "end now". At the same time, however, he said he was "against any negotiations in all shapes and forms" with the Islamic Republic. "It makes Iran credible on a global scale and will allow them to oppress people," he explained. "But I also don't think we will end up anywhere with this current war. There should have been support for movements against the regime inside the country," Armin said. Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu have often said they are creating conditions for Iranians to rise up and take power in their own hands. So far, there have been no signs that their messages have been heard - or heeded. Since the war started on 28 February, the Islamic authorities have warned Iranians - whether through statements or mass text messages - not to come out on to the streets to protest. Iran's police chief, Brig Gen Ahmadreza Radan, warned that his forces would treat anyone who took to the streets "at the enemy's request" as an "enemy". Under these conditions, there are Iranians who support the continuation of the war. "I feel terrible about negotiations. I'm very anxious that they might stay," said Parsa, a man in his 30s who lives in Karaj, a city near Tehran, referring to the current leadership in Iran. "They're in a position of weakness. If they stay, they will massacre people inside. They are still really strong, they need to be weakened a bit more for people to revolt against them." Some people have moved out of Tehran to other cities and provinces to be somewhere safer. Sadaf, a woman in her 20s currently in the northern Mazandaran province, is one of them. "I don't want any negotiations at all. I want them all [clerics] gone. But yes, obviously I'm scared of electricity and water outages." Somewhere in the middle are those like Mahtab, a woman in her 20s, living in Tehran, who are resigned to any outcome. "The thing I keep thinking about the most is how, in every situation, so much of the blame somehow ends up on us, and we tell ourselves we're in control... while at the same time, there's basically nothing we can actually do," she said. "And these world powers are just the ones make all the decisions for us people here," Mahtab said. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump's dramatic description of "very strong talks" with Iran suggested the door to diplomacy has been flung open for what he said could be "a complete and total resolution of our hostilities in the Middle East". But Iran almost immediately denied that talks had begun - and so far, there are only signs of small windows being opened - by a crack. One is the same window that was shattered during previous rounds of diplomacy, in February and in June last year, by US-backed Israeli attacks on Iran which destroyed the little trust that existed. There's said to be some communication between the two lead negotiators in previous discussions - Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi and US envoy Steve Witkoff. But these conversations are described as very preliminary. And Tehran now sees the Witkoff track as subterfuge. "The statements of the US president are part of efforts to reduce energy prices and buy time for the implementation of his military plans," was the retort of Iran's foreign ministry. It's a sentiment shared by other observers too, who see a US commander-in-chief under mounting pressure to lower oil prices, lift stocks, and project progress in ending this perilous conflagration causing economic shock the world over - including in America. And Trump is also still looking for the kind of door which opened in Venezuela, with an Iranian version of the new interim President Delcy Rodríguez - a powerful but pragmatic leader whom he can try to bend to his will. In the early days of this war, he described Venezuela as "the perfect scenario" for Iran. It betrayed a misunderstanding of the fundamental differences between Venezuela and Iran's multi-layered system honed and hardened over nearly five decades to ensure its survival by sidelining reformists and repressing dissent. But Trump now says they're dealing with a "top person" in the Islamic Republic. The unnamed individual being widely cited, after first reports in Israeli media, is Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf. He's played leading roles in the machinery of Iran including police chief, commander of the air force in the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), as well as speaker of the parliament. He failed four times in presidential runs and described Iranians who took to the streets nationwide in February calling for change as "enemies and terrorists." But in Trump's world, Ghalibaf is a strongman who could possibly bridge the divides between Iran's security and political establishments. Sources say there have been indirect efforts to try to open a dialogue with Ghalibaf but there's still no official or public sign they've yielded any success. For Iran, it's still highly risky since Israel has been assassinating one top official after another, including Ali Larijani, the hardline security chief who knew the system inside out. He was viewed as a possible intermediary if serious negotiations were ever started. Ghalibaf has also been entrenched among its most hardcore elements who now dominate decision-making. Since Larijani's assassination, he's now being eyed with interest as someone who might someday do a deal. "He's the last man standing who's seen as more ideologically flexible," said one source with knowledge of the various mediation efforts. "But even Trump said if he named him, they'd kill him, and then Israel immediately named him." "This is the most interesting track to watch," said Ellie Geranmayeh, senior policy fellow at the European Council on Foreign Relations. But it is not clear if there has been any movement along it. "Neither side would meet at that level until the US and Iran are nearing a political breakthrough and a lot of negotiations are needed before they even reach that stage," Geranmayeh added. So far, Ghalibaf has become a troller-in-chief, taking on Trump's own stream of statements on social media. "Our people demand the complete and humiliating punishment of the aggressors," Ghalibaf lashed out in a post on X on Monday. "No negotiations with America have taken place." With the two sides wide apart, and at war,  and with leading officials like Ghalibaf focused on their own survival as well as the system's, a meeting would be a bold leap. For the moment, most diplomacy resides in working the phones. Proposals, multiple points long, are being mooted by mediators racing to find a way out of this deepening quagmire. This time, new countries are engaging in this age-old crisis including Pakistan, Egypt, and Turkey which have not been on the front lines of the war itself. Their leaders have cultivated close personal ties with Trump and they've been actively engaged in an expanded forum of Arab-Islamic nations. Oman, the traditional mediator most trusted by Tehran, also says it's involved in efforts to reduce tension, and reopen the vital Strait of Hormuz. But most Arab Gulf leaders, furious over what they've described as Iran's "reckless" attacks on their countries' infrastructure, are more focused on reassessing this relationship.  "It will take decades to repair this rupture," one senior official in the Gulf told me. Pakistan, whose military and political leaders have cosied up to Trump, offered a way to climb down from his dangerous brink after the threat to strike Iran's energy infrastructure, by offering to host high-level talks as soon as this weekend. An interesting sidebar was the recent statement by Iran's new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei in which he singled out Pakistan as being beloved by his father, the former leader assassinated in the first hours of this war. But there's still no confirmation of any kind of meeting. "There are no talks at this moment," said Ali Vaez of the International Crisis Group, referring to the messages being passed between Washington and Tehran as efforts "to jump start ceasefire negotiations." "But I doubt they are anywhere close to creating enough common ground for a serious meeting or substantive talks," he cautioned. And, as this war grinds on, Iran is making it clear that it wants to exact a heavy price.  It's published a list of demands - impossible for Washington to accept - ranging from the closure of US bases in the region, to reparations, and firm guarantees against any future aggression. Demands have also hardened on the other side. Arab Gulf states will now insist that Iran's ballistic missiles need to be on the table as well as controls over the Strait of Hormuz which has been weaponised by Iran in this war. And then there is the deep gulf in understanding and trust which leads many to be sceptical. Trump likely believes this war has granted him additional leverage to get Iran to accept his conditions, and Iran senses it has not only fortified its position but has additional bargaining chips in the Strait of Hormuz," remarked Mohammad Ali Shabani, editor of Amwaj.media website. In his post announcing the talks, Trump said he was postponing his threat to strike Iran's power plants for five days - meaning all eyes are on his new deadline - Friday, when the markets close. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
With mixed signals over US plans for fresh talks with Iran, the exchange of fire between Iran and Israel - the Middle East's two arch-enemies - continues. Iran fired several missiles at targets in northern and southern Israel overnight, after Israel carried out "dozens" of air strikes inside Iran on Monday, hitting command centres of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corp (IRGC) and Intelligence Ministry in Tehran, Israel's army said, as well as weapons stores and air defences. Around the latest blast site in northern Tel Aviv, balconies have been sheared off, and walls are shedding masonry into a crater between a cluster of residential buildings. Local reports suggest this was a direct hit from an Iranian missile that narrowly missed several apartment blocks. Six people were reportedly wounded in the attack, though none seriously. One man who lives on the road behind the impact site told the BBC he didn't have time to get to the shelter when the sirens sounded, and had just reached his front door when it was blown open by the blast. He described fleeing from his apartment in bare feet as glass shattered around him.  When he looked back, a fire had already broken out in the debris behind him, he said. There is still widespread speculation over Donald Trump's motivation for opening a new dialogue with Tehran; negotiations have been used by the White House before as a smokescreen for military escalation, and thousands of US marines are currently being sent to the Middle East. But to some in Israel, talk of negotiations is another indication that the US president is looking for a way out of the war, and that the goals of Israel and its superpower ally are starting to diverge. "[Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin] Netanyahu doesn't want a deal," says Michael Milstein, a former military intelligence officer in Israel and now head of the Palestinian Studies Centre at Tel Aviv University. "There is a kind of contradiction between Trump's stance and Netanyahu's," he told the BBC. "Netanyahu wants to continue the war. He promised this war would end all the existential threats to Israel, and maybe even promote conditions to change the regime in Iran, and right now there is a gap between his promises and what is happening on ground." If Trump is serious about finding a way out of this war, he says, Israel's prime minister could find himself in an impossible situation. "It's Catch-22 because if there are negotiations, he will not be able to promote the war, and he can't say to Donald Trump, 'I'll continue the war without you'. He understands that he'll have to accept it." But Netanyahu is treading a fine line, after promising Israelis this war would end the immediate threat from Iran and its network of proxies around the region. The bar for a deal he can sell to Israeli voters and allies is high at this point in the war. "Israelis want the war to end.  We just understand that the right way for it to end is by us defeating the regime, and not by just having this come back to haunt us over and over again," said Dan Illouz, another Likud member of parliament. "We've tried the containment policy in the past, we've done it with Hamas, we saw it blew up in our faces on Oct 7th, so we don't want the same thing to happen with Iran." After speaking to President Trump on Monday, Netanyahu said Israel was continuing to attack both Iran and Lebanon, and would "protect [its] vital interests in any situation". Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz said on Tuesday that Israeli forces would establish a security zone in a large swathe of Lebanon south of the Litani River, and that residents would not be allowed back there until Israeli communities were safe from attack by Hezbollah, which is backed by Iran. Israel is widely expected to continue its military campaign against Hezbollah, even if a deal is reached to end the war with Iran. But Iran analyst Danny Citrinowicz, from the Institute for National Security Studies in Tel Aviv, says a deal on Iran is unlikely, because the gaps in both position and expectations are too wide to bridge. "From the Iranian side, they're winning, not losing, so they'll demand compensation and guarantees," he said. "On the other side, you have Trump thinking that [Iran] will approve all the requirements of the US from the get-go." To get an agreement, he says, Trump and Netanyahu will either have to change the regime, or forego their requirements. "This regime is not going to capitulate - they're not going to give the Americans something they didn't give them before the war," he said. "They control the bottleneck of the international economy – the Strait of Hormuz – one of the world's busiest oil routes, which Iran has blocked - and they feel they have the upper hand in negotiations." That confidence will have been boosted by Trump's withdrawal of an ultimatum to Iran last week to reopen the Strait of Hormuz, or face widespread attacks on its energy infrastructure. He withdrew the threat after Tehran threatened to retaliate against US-linked energy sites in the region. Analysts have pointed out that Donald Trump has little to lose in appearing to signal US openness to a new round of talks – whether it's intended to calm energy markets, sow division inside Iran's leadership or buy time for fresh military action. One observer told me it wouldn't be a surprise if he woke up on Friday to a fresh US military offensive on Iran. This war now appears poised between capitulation and escalation, with neither side yet weak enough to make the deal its enemy wants. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US-Israeli attacks against Iran, and the threats against its energy infrastructure, as well as Tehran's retaliation on its Gulf neighbours underline how the norms of starting and escalating international wars have been upended. US President Donald Trump has at least twice threatened to use overwhelming force against Iranian energy facilities. Last week, he said he would "massively blow up" Iran's South Pars gas field if Iran further retaliated against Qatari energy sites. And on Saturday, he said the US would "obliterate" Iran's "various power plants, starting with the biggest one first" if its leaders did not reopen the Strait of Hormuz. It comes amid mounting concern that the nature of this war is putting further, unprecedented strain on the global rules-based order. Luis Moreno Ocampo, founding chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC), said the global rules-based order was designed to protect civilians and prevent nations resorting to war other than in self-defence, or when approved by the UN Security Council. He told the BBC that the war on Iran amounts to a crime of aggression under international law. Moreno Ocampo also said Trump's threats to bomb Iranian power plants, as well as attacks by both Iran and Israel on energy infrastructure, do not amount to legitimate targets. He likened such strikes to Russia's attacks on energy sites in Ukraine which led to Russian officials being indicted by the ICC for alleged war crimes. "The cases of Russia in Ukraine or the US in Iran or in Venezuela is… called a crime of aggression. That means the use of armed forces by a state against the sovereignty, the territorial integrity or the political independence of another state, that's it," said Moreno Ocampo. "Now we go [from the rules-based system] to the rule of the man, whatever today President Trump decides will be the rule. That's not a viable world," he said. In response, the White House called Moreno Ocampo's statement "ridiculous". It said Trump was taking "bold action to eliminate the threat posed by a rogue, terrorist regime". Iran's killing of civilians in the region underscored "the importance of the president taking this action," a White House official added. Asked about concerns over US attacks on Iranian power plants amounting to war crimes, US Ambassador to the United Nations Mike Waltz told CBS News on Sunday:  "When you have a regime that has its grips in so much critical infrastructure that is using it to further not only the repression of its own people, to attack its neighbours, and in contravention of UN sanctions to march towards a nuclear weapon, then that makes those legitimate targets." Moreno Ocampo, however, said Iran's attacks on its Gulf neighbours - which had not attacked it - would also be seen as a crime of aggression under international law. Neither the US, Israel or Iran are members of the International Criminal Court. Still, the Trump administration has sanctioned several of the court's judges in retaliation for its previous investigations into the US and Israel. Under the Rome Statute, which established the court, "intentionally directing attacks at civilian objects... which are not military objectives" is defined as a war crime, he said. While civilian sites can lose their protection if they are used for military purposes, in such cases attacks must adhere to principles of international humanitarian law including distinguishing between combatants and civilians. Rights groups say attacking Iranian power plants could have a devastating impact on civilian life, given Iranians are already suffering from power outages with electricity often needed to pump water to homes. Iran said if the US carried out such a strike it would attack the energy and water systems of its Gulf neighbours in retaliation. On Monday, Trump said he was postponing his threat for five days and said Iran was negotiating, which Iranian officials denied. During the war missiles have also landed close to nuclear facilities in Iran and Israel. The World Health Organisation said that the conflict was at a "perilous stage" and called for restraint. Brian Finucane, a former state department lawyer, told the BBC if Trump carried out threats against Iran's energy facilities, "it's hard to see how any such attack would be lawful. He's ready to attack things which are not obviously lawful military objectives." Israeli airstrikes have targeted multiple fuel depots in and around Tehran, creating immense fireballs and sending thick columns of smoke into the air. Iran has attacked energy infrastructure in Qatar, the UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Iraq and Israel. The International Energy Agency (IEA) has said since the start of the war at least 40 energy assets across nine countries have been "severely or very severely" damaged. The UN Security Council has condemned Iran's attacks on its Gulf neighbours. But critics argue the West's condemnation of Iranian violations of international law is undermined by the US openly appearing to abandon such norms. Brian Katulis, a former national security official under both Democrat and Republican administrations, said Trump's threats came in the context of a "very dicey moment for the international order". He told the BBC that US threats on energy infrastructure and its actions in Iran and Venezuela sent a signal: "You can do as you please. The jungle has grown back. In some ways it just follows the currents that were already in the international system that were accelerating". Katulis argued Trump's inability to effectively raise a coalition to secure the Strait of Hormuz was a direct result of allies losing trust in the US. He also said the Trump administration was creating an era of "thugboat diplomacy". The White House rejected this. An official said President Trump had restored America's place as the most powerful country in the world, to protect the US and its allies against the threat of a nuclear armed Iran. "His predecessors talked about curtailing Iran's threat for 47 years, but did nothing about it – instead, they opted to preserve the status quo while allowing the terrorist regime to build up its destructive capabilities". The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The government plans to help "those who need it most" if energy bills spiral due to the US-Israel war with Iran. Chancellor Rachel Reeves said contingency planning was under way for "every eventuality", noting the full impact of the war on the UK economy was uncertain. Energy bills for millions of people in England, Scotland, and Wales are about to fall for three months from April under Ofgem's price cap, which is updated quarterly, but there is likely to be a big jump in gas and electricity costs over the summer. This has prompted calls for the government to step in, though the Conservatives have questioned whether the government can afford to do so. A fifth of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas usually moves through the Strait of Hormuz, which has been effectively blocked since the conflict began. Wholesale oil and gas prices have soared as the war has entered its fourth week which experts fear will feed through to energy prices. Detail of exactly who could be helped by the UK government and how remains unclear. Reeves said any package would be constrained by the government's borrowing rules and its wish to keep inflation and interest rates "as low as possible". "Contingency planning is taking place for every eventuality so we can keep costs down for everyone and provide support for those who need it most," she said. The chancellor's comments signal that the public should not expect support for everybody. They suggest any package of support will not apply to the richest households, in contrast to the Energy Price Guarantee that was rolled out universally after Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. The Treasury has calculated that the top 10% richest households, as users of the most amount of gas, got the biggest support, averaging £1,350. Reeves said the government was working with the Department for Work and Pensions to ensure support goes to those most in need. Shadow Chancellor Sir Mel Stride accused Reeves of leaving the UK economy "in tatters". "We are getting poorer and our economy is increasingly fragile," he said. On the targeted help Reeves mentioned, he asked: "What fiscal capacity does she believe she has to support those in need?" The chancellor also announced a "new anti-profiteering framework" for the Competition and Markets Authority, which she says will have powers to tackle any companies that exploit price rises. Companies which breach competition or consumer law, including through excessive pricing or by charging customers a higher price than advertised when they come to order, may be fined by the CMA. The price of petrol has reached an 18-month high since the Middle East conflict broke out, according to the RAC. Petrol retailers have strongly denied price-gouging, and earlier this month criticised the government for using "inflammatory language". The watchdog is currently gathering evidence on whether fuel providers are profiteering, and it will be some time before it comes to a conclusion. Meanwhile, fuel duty is set to increase in September, having been cut by 5p and frozen since the price spike following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. However, earlier this month the government said the planned rise would be kept under review as the Middle East conflict continues. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A US Air Force (USAF) bomber was forced to declare an "emergency" this morning while travelling back to a base in the west of England. The B-52H Stratofortress departed from RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire on Monday evening, and issued a 7700 code as it returned shortly after 09:00 GMT on Tuesday. A 7700 is a universal code issued by pilots to let air traffic controllers know the aircraft is in distress. The reason for the distress signal has not been confirmed, and the USAF has been approached for comment. Flight spotters believe the 7700 was issued due to a loss of cabin pressure while the aircraft was flying over the Solent. The aircraft was seen circling at approximately 10,000 feet just east of Southampton before beginning a steady descent. The UK government announced on 1 March that it has agreed to allow British military bases to be used for "defensive" strikes on Iranian missile sites. Due to its long runway, RAF Fairford is capable of hosting all three kinds of long-range bombers in the USAF - the B-1, B-2 and the B-52. The B-52 has been used by the USAF since the 1950s, and the variant B52H is known for its ability to carry a huge payload of missiles - in excess of 30 tonnes - and its longevity. According to manufacturer Boeing, the majority of the USAF's B52H were delivered in the 1960s, and are expected to operate into the 2050s. The arrival of the USAF bombers at RAF Fairford has drawn crowds of plane enthusiasts to the area. Jurgan van Toor was among a group that travelled all the way from the Netherlands to see the aircraft. He told the BBC: "For me personally the cause of the war was a bit dodgy, I don't think it was necessary, but we are here for the aircraft and that's beautiful to see." People living in nearby village of Down Ampney say the noise of the bombers taking off is so loud it causes houses to shake and sets off car alarms. But they have also been good for business. Cafe owner Rob Broadbent said: "There's been a very obvious uptick in business, particularly from the servicemen from the base - all of which have been very accommodating, friendly and polite." Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. Zac Summers-Cameron died in 2025, aged 22, after his testicular cancer was originally misdiagnosed. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Lester Murphy says he wants to inspire others who have been diagnosed the neurological disorder. A collection of photos from Bristol, Somerset, Wiltshire and Gloucestershire in early spring. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
China has dialled back on planned fuel price hikes in a bid to "reduce the burden" on drivers, as energy costs surge amid the Iran war. The local price of petrol has jumped by about 20% since the start of the conflict, which has seen Iran effectively close one of the world's busiest oil shipping channels, the Strait of Hormuz. Gasoline and diesel prices were initially set to rise by 2,205 yuan (£239; $320) and 2,120 yuan per tonne respectively – but after government adjustments, the increases will be nearly halved to 1,160 yuan and 1,115 yuan, starting Tuesday. More than 300 million people in China drive cars that run on petrol or diesel, with Gulf countries a major source of the country's oil. Long queues of cars had formed outside petrol stations in multiple Chinese cities over the weekend, with some stations having to post notices that they had run out of fuel. The latest price hike was the country's fifth and largest of the year so far - even with the reduction. On Tuesday, the price of Brent crude oil jumped above $100 a barrel - a day after prices plunged, as conflicting accounts of potential talks between US and Iran emerged. Beijing has over the years taken advantage of lower crude prices and the abundance of supply from Gulf states to build one of the world's biggest oil reserves, Ole Hansen, Saxo Bank's head of commodity strategy, told the BBC last week. In January and February of this year, Beijing bought 16% more crude compared to the same time period a year earlier, according to its customs administration. Iran, whose oil is sanctioned by the US, has been a key supplier of cheap crude for China, with reports suggesting that Beijing buys more than 80% of Iran's oil exports. Hansen said that estimates show China has built up reserves of around 900 million barrels - just under three months' worth of imports. Figures from Columbia University, cited by Chinese state media, said China had petrol reserves of some 1.4 billion barrels. Despite its reserves, Beijing has shown signs of caution to manage its supplies in the short-term. Authorities in China reportedly ordered its oil refineries to temporarily cease fuel exports, in an attempt to keep domestic prices under control. China's government did not respond to BBC queries on the matter. Barrels from Saudi Arabia and Iran account for more than 10% of its imports each, according to the US Energy Information Administration (EIA). "To mitigate the impact of abnormal increases in international oil prices, ease the burden on downstream users and ensure stable economic operations and public welfare, temporary regulatory measures have been adopted," China's state planner said in a statement on Monday. The price hikes were implemented by the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), which reviews petrol and diesel prices every 10 days and adjusts based on global prices of crude oil. Other countries across Asia have also implemented a range of cost-cutting measures to help cushion the blow of soaring global energy prices. Government employees in the Philippines have been ordered to work four days a week, Sri Lanka has declared every Wednesday a holiday for public institutions, and Thailand and Vietnam have encouraged citizens to work from home in an attempt to conserve fuel. Thai civil servants have also been ordered to suspend overseas trips, wear short-sleeve shirts to work and use stairs instead of lifts. Sri Lanka's private bus services ground to a near standstill on Monday after operators went on strike demanding a fare revision to pay for rising fuel costs. In the Philippines, more than 20 transport groups have similarly declared a strike from March 26 to 27 to demand government action on rising fuel prices. Japan and South Korea have been particularly affected by the Iran conflict, as they are heavily dependent on oil and gas that would normally pass through the Strait of Hormuz. Gasoline prices in Japan reached a record high last week, with the average retail price of gasoline climbing to 191 yen (£0.90; $1.20) per litre on Monday, according to data from the country's economy ministry - an 18% increase from a week earlier. South Korean President Lee Jae Myung on Tuesday said public institutions would ‌cut back on their use of passenger cars. On Monday, Lee's office announced that he had scrapped plans to attend an international forum in China so that he could stay in South Korea to "lead the emergency economic response directly and make swift decisions at this juncture". Additional reporting by Osmond Chia The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
America may be a nation at war, but President Donald Trump's activities over the past few days have been a mix of diplomacy and diversions - with the occasional swing towards the surreal. On Friday, he said the US war against Iran was "winding down". By Saturday night, he had given Iran a 48-hour deadline to reopen the Strait of Hormuz or face withering new American airstrikes. The next day, he golfed and spent the afternoon at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida. By Monday morning, with global markets swooning, he said the Iranians were engaging in "constructive" talks with the US. Then he flew to Memphis, Tennessee, gave a speech and visited Graceland, music legend Elvis Presley's historic home. Meanwhile, US and Israeli airstrikes on Iranian targets are ongoing. The Iranians continue to fire missiles and launch drones against US forces and its Middle East  allies. Traffic through Hormuz remains limited. At the time, Trump's Saturday-night ultimatum seemed clear: if Iran didn't allow full access to Hormuz for international shipping, the US would plunge the nation into darkness by targeting its energy production infrastructure. It was a stark warning. Iran replied that it would, in turn, target regional energy and water infrastructure. A new escalation of the three-week war, with potentially dire consequences for civilians, appeared imminent. By Monday morning, however, Trump had called off the strikes – at least temporarily. US contact with an unnamed Iranian leader - contact not confirmed by Iran  - was enough to merit a five-day stay of the threatened attacks, the president said. He struck an optimistic tone over the course of the day, as he flew to Tennessee for a visit he said had been planned weeks earlier. The US and Iran have "major points of agreement," he said from the tarmac before his departure. "They want very much to make a deal," he said. "We'd like to make a deal, too." A few hours later, speaking to gathered US National Guard personnel in Memphis, he said the US was having "very, very good discussions" with Iran. "Iran has one more opportunity to end its threats to America and our allies," he said. "We hope they take it." Then Trump headed to Graceland, Memphis's most famous tourist attraction, to tout a drop in the city's crime rate, which he attributed to his deployment of  National Guard soldiers to its streets. As Trump walked through Elvis's home, observing the fashion and design tastes of the "king of rock'n'roll", reports continued to filter in of a presidential phone call to Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and potential direct talks with Iranian officials later in the week. Diplomatic wheels, it seemed, were in motion, even as the lack of detail left many around the world with suspicious minds, as Elvis once crooned. Iranian state media, citing Trump's Truth Social post as evidence, claimed the president backed down in the face of threats. Iranian officials denied any substantive talks between the two nations. While the president spoke of "15 points of agreement", he declined to provide much in the way of specifics. Even the prospect of talks was enough to send the US stock market surging and global oil prices dropping, however. What had been shaping up as a day of heartbreak for major world economies now had a glimmer of hope for investors eager to see an off-ramp to this conflict. Trump is back in Washington, where a new five-day countdown to US attacks on Iranian power infrastructure will begin. After fits, starts and a pilgrimage to the home of a deceased rock legend, Trump may have provided the first indication of a real breakthrough. Or it could be just the latest instance of this president realising that the ultimatum he delivered put him in a tight spot, forcing a move to buy himself more time. During his tour of Graceland, Trump said that he was a big Elvis fan and that Hurt was his favourite song. Given the current circumstances, however, It's Now or Never may have been a more appropriate choice. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. The Uganda Law Society criticises the deportation, saying it was illegal and "dehumanising". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Parastesh Dahaghin was a young pharmacist killed in an explosion while she was at work. Berivan Molani was in bed when debris from an air strike in Tehran struck her head. For more than three weeks, Tehran and other cities have been pummelled by US and Israeli airstrikes - with thousands of targets hit across the country. And reports of civilian casualties from these strikes are not limited to adults. Eilmah Bilki, aged 3, reportedly died a day after being injured in the western town of Sardasht. The toll on civilians is mounting fast. Most of their stories will never be told. But through the thick, black smoke of war and an internet blackout, small fragments of information are getting out of Iran. And the names of a tiny fraction of the civilian casualties of the US-Israeli war on the country are beginning to emerge. Parastesh Dahagain had been in her pharmacy in Tehran's Apadana neighbourhood when the nearby building of an IT company that reportedly played a role in Iran's internet shutdown was struck, according to the Iran Human Rights Documentation Center. Video posted online shows a mourning ceremony for Parastesh - framed pictures of her nestled among candles and flowers. Her brother Poorya wrote on Instagram that his sister was just doing her job when she was killed. He said the family had told her that Tehran wasn't safe but she had replied: "People need me, people have been wounded." She told him: "They come to the pharmacy, and elderly people need their medication. I have to stay here and help my people." "You were so noble," he added, in tribute. Less is known about 3-year old Eilmah Bilki - whose photo was provided to the BBC by the Kurdish human rights group, Hengaw. The group said she had been severely wounded in US-Israeli airstrikes in early March and died a day later. Berivan Molani – a 26-year-old lifestyle blogger who ran an online clothes shop - was an only child who had returned to Tehran from the safety of northern Iran just the day before she died, because she missed home. Her family say they had no idea that Iran's minister of intelligence, Esmail Khatib, lived opposite them on Makouyipour Street in Tehran's wealthy Zafaraniyeh neighbourhood, according to Razieh Janbaz, a friend, posting on Instagram. Night-time footage released by the Iranian Red Crescent shows rescuers removing fallen masonry to try to reach Berivan's trapped mother as she begs to know: "Is my daughter alive?" Berivan had already been pulled out of the rubble, but her crush injuries were fatal. "She was killed in her bed, right before going to sleep, during the missile attack on March 17th," wrote Janbaz. Several of Berivan's neighbours were killed in the Israeli airstrike that targeted Khatib last week, said Janbaz, a former member of Iran's handball team who went to the area after the attack and found that all that was left of her friend's life was a pair of trainers lying on the street. "This was a family who did everything in their power to protect their child yet in the end – without even knowing who lives in the house across from them – they lost her," she said. The US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) has so far recorded more than 1,400 civilian deaths, 15% of them children. One of the deadliest single incidents was a missile strike on a primary school in the southern town of Minab at the start of the war. Reports point to US responsibility as it targeted a nearby military base. The US military has not publicly admitted hitting the school, but says it is investigating. Kurdish human rights group Hengaw has identified 48 children and 10 adults killed in the school. Hengaw expressed "grave concern" over rising civilian casualties. Iran does not report its own military losses. HRANA reports at least 1,167 military personnel have been killed since the war began. During the war, many Iranians have been arrested for using the internet. But even for human rights groups with strong contacts on the ground, gathering information on casualties is extremely hard. Hengaw says Iranian border guards have been given orders to shoot people trying to use Iraqi phone and internet networks - which can sometimes be accessed close to the border between the two countries - as the regime tries to control both the population and the narrative of the war. "It's a really heartbreaking situation for people," said Hengaw's Awyar Shekhi. People are "terrified", she told the BBC. "Earlier this year they were being killed on the streets by the Iranian government and now they risk being killed by the bombings." There are government buildings in residential areas, he said, before adding that even a big city like Tehran has no civilian bomb shelters. The International Committee of the Red Cross says civilians are paying an "alarming" price for the war. A Red Crescent worker, Hamidreza Jahanbakhsh, is among the dead, and several of its facilities have been damaged. "International humanitarian law is clear: Civilians and civilian infrastructure must be spared from attack. Medical workers and first responders, as well as medical transport and facilities and humanitarian personnel must be respected and protected," said ICRC delegation head, Vincent Cassard. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has now verified more than 20 attacks on health care facilities, with reports of many more. It says at least nine health workers have been killed. It classifies any collateral damage as an attack. "It's not for us to determine if a strike was aimed directly at that facility or a facility next to it," says Ian Clarke, who is directing WHO's response to the war in the Middle East. "It's an attack on health, and the onus is on the people who are pursuing a conflict to actively protect civilians and to protect and take the measures to ensure that the health facilities are not impacted." "Any attack on health care is a breach of international law," he adds. The US has previously said it does not target civilians and takes its obligations seriously. The BBC has verified footage of several damaged hospitals, including the 17-story private Gandhi hospital in Tehran, close to the headquarters of the state broadcaster which was the target, a Red Crescent hospital in the town of Mahabad in western Iran, and a hospital in the southern port of Bushehr, from which babies in incubators were seen being evacuated on 3 March. Just weeks after they tried to save the lives of injured protesters, doctors working in public hospitals are stretched and "extremely exhausted", according to Iranian surgeon Dr Hashim Moazenzadeh. He is now based in France, but has been in touch with former colleagues in Tehran. "The bombs being used are extremely large and we have a very high number of civilian casualties," he said. Making an urgent plea, he added: "If you're bombing near places like hospitals, you have to prioritise their safety and protection." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump's promise of "good" and "productive" talks with Iran are perhaps his most conciliatory remarks since the beginning of Operation Epic Fury, but leave significant unanswered questions. Early on Monday morning - just hours before markets opened - Trump took to Truth Social, promising to hold off on striking Iranian power plants and energy infrastructure for a five-day period as talks continue, after having previously threatened to "obliterate" these targets unless Iran opens the Strait of Hormuz. Iran, however, has denied that any contact between its official and the Trump administration has taken place. This, in turn, immediately prompted questions on what talks Trump was referring to, or whether he was seeking to calm troubled global markets. Speaking to reporters in Palm Beach, Trump said that both sides are looking to make a deal and that the US maintains a "great relationship" with a lot of potential partners in the Middle East, although he did not identify any. While Trump said that special envoy Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law, participated in the talks, Trump offered no details on who they were with, or what they were focused on. Possibilities include opening the Strait of Hormuz, Iran's ballistic missile programme, the enrichment of uranium, or a simple ceasefire, a possibility which Trump had previously downplayed. At an event in Memphis later in the day, Trump said Iran had "agreed that they will not have a nuclear weapon". There has been no confirmation of this from the Iranians. "I think there's a very good chance we're going to end up in a deal," he said. "And so we're giving it five days and then we're going to see where that takes it." The US president has repeatedly told reporters that multiple tiers of Iranian leadership have been wiped out, and at a Friday event at the White House said that it is "hard to find leaders in Iran to talk to because they keep getting killed". In a brief telephone interview with CNBC reporter Joe Kernen immediately after Trump's post on Monday morning, Trump said that Iran has representatives left, contradicting his own previous public statements. He suggested they were behaving differently than their predecessors. Kernen said Trump was "insisting" that the change constitutes a form of regime change. Iran's denial that any talks have taken place, however, complicates this narrative for the administration and will likely make for awkward questions. Already, an unnamed Iranian source quoted by Fars News Agency, affiliated with Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), characterised Trump's statement as something of a victory for the regime, claiming Trump "backed down" after Iran's threats to launch retaliatory strikes against energy infrastructure across the region. Iranian parliamentary speaker Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf. meanwhile, denied the talks had happened and called it "fake news". The talks could also be something of a ruse - as was the case last summer when talks with the Iranians were reportedly still progressing right up until US bombs struck Iranian nuclear facilities during Operation Midnight Hammer. Trump, after all, often reminds reporters that his decision-making process or thinking on a particular topic is a mystery to almost everyone. Even with scant evidence of sustained negotiations, Trump's post led US stock market futures to rally and global oil prices to drop precipitously. What was shaping up to be a dismal day for major world economies was left with a glimmer of optimism. The timing of Trump's post – just before US markets open – may not have been a coincidence. The president's threat to attack Iranian power facilities by Monday evening - after his deadline had passed - had led to widespread fears of an escalation in the war. His decision to delay any action for five days has, for now, eased those concerns. If talks did take place, it is not clear how serious any US-Iranian negotiations have been, whether the US and Israel will continue other airstrikes and whether Iran is still restricting access to the Strait of Hormuz - the reason for Trump's Monday bombing deadline in the first place. This may be the first indication of a real breakthrough. Or it could be the move of a president who had put himself into a difficult spot looking for a way to buy himself more time. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Sir Keir Starmer has said he is looking at "every lever that's available to government" to deal with cost of living pressures caused by the Iran war. The prime minister is chairing an emergency Cobra committee, which will be attended by Bank of England governor Andrew Bailey and senior ministers. Housing Minister Matthew Pennycook said a "range of options" are being assessed, telling the BBC this would include on the issue of "profiteering that we're potentially seeing from fuel retailers". The meeting will take place after US President Donald Trump said military strikes against Iranian energy infrastructure would be postponed for five days following "productive" talks with Iran. Trump's post on his TruthSocial platform said discussions had been taking place for two days regarding the "complete and total resolution of our hostilities in the Middle East" and these will "continue throughout the week". Oil prices eased back and London's FTSE 100 share index reversed early session falls following his comments. A Downing Street spokesperson said: "Any reports of productive talks are welcome", adding: "We have always said a swift resolution to the war is in the global interest and the Strait of Hormuz specifically needs to be re-opened." On Sunday, Sir Keir and Trump discussed the need to reopen the strait, a vital oil shipping channel. Iran has effectively blocked the Strait of Hormuz since the US and Israel attacked the country on 28 February. In a social media post on Saturday, Trump threatened to "obliterate" Iranian power plants if the strait was not opened within 48 hours. Tehran said it would target US-linked energy sites across the Gulf region if the US followed through with its threat, according to Iranian state media. On Monday, Trump gave a TruthSocial update on the "in depth, detailed, and constructive conversations" between the US and Iran. He added he has "instructed the department of war to postpone any and all military strikes against Iranian power plants and energy infrastructure for a five day period, subject to the success of the ongoing meetings and discussions". Topics expected to be covered at the Cobra meeting, which will also be attended by the chancellor, foreign secretary and energy secretary, include energy security and the economic impact of the crisis on families. Ministers will also discuss the impact on business and supply chains, alongside the international response. Sir Keir told broadcasters: "I am asking for every lever that's available to the government to deal with the cost of living to be discussed at Cobra, hence we've got the Bank of England and others there." The prime minister added he wants to ensure the government is doing "everything we possibly can at a very difficult period like this". The prime minister faced questions from senior MPs about the government's response to the conflict when he appeared in front of the liaison committee in the House of Commons, ahead of the Cobra meeting. He told the committee he would "look at what further teeth we can give the [Competition and Markets Authority] to deal with this". He told MPs: "We are looking at measures to deal with profiteering, I've already asked the CMA to look at this… "On price gouging or profiteering, we absolutely need to bear down on it, so we are actively considering whether the CMA should have additional powers to deal specifically with that. "But at the moment, we are making sure they are focused on anti-profiteering steps they can take now." Cobra meetings, also known as Cobr, are named after Cabinet Office Briefing Room A in Whitehall. The room is where senior ministers and officials gather in central London, to coordinate the emergency response to a crisis. The government has already outlined a £53m package for homes struggling with a sharp increase in the price of heating oil. Conservative Party leader Kemi Badenoch said Sir Keir should use the Cobra meeting to tell Energy Secretary Ed Miliband to "adopt our cheap power plan", adding: "Drill the North Sea, cut carbon taxes, and axe the fuel duty hike." Green Party leader Zack Polanski said this is "no time for half-measures" as he suggested families should be protected from energy price hikes. Writing on X, his suggestions to pay for such an approach included "a tighter oil and gas windfall tax, taxing income from wealth the same as from work, and double down on renewables and energy efficiency to protect us from future shocks". Sir Keir also reiterated there is "no assessment" that the UK is being targeted by Iran. It came after the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said on Saturday that Tehran had weapons that could reach up to 4,000km (2,485 miles). It had also previously emerged that Iran targeted the joint US-UK military base on the Chagos Islands in the Indian Ocean, around 3,800km from Iran. Sir Keir said: "No missiles hit the Chagos Islands. "There were two heading in that direction and it's really important that we call out these reckless acts by Iran against British interests, British lives, against our allies in the Gulf and the region." On Friday, the government agreed to allow the US to use British bases to launch strikes on Iranian sites targeting the Strait of Hormuz. It had previously allowed US forces to use the bases only for defensive operations to prevent Iran firing missiles that put British interests or lives at risk. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has postponed his threat to strike Iranian power plants for five days after what he said were "productive conversations" between the US and Iran. On Saturday evening, the president said that if the Strait of Hormuz was not opened "without threat" in 48 hours then the US would "obliterate" Iran's power plants. Iran responded by saying the shipping channel would be "completely closed" if the US followed up on Trump's threat. On Friday, Centcom, which oversees US military operations in the Middle East, said it had flown more than 8,000 combat flights since the conflict began on 28 February. The US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) said 1,407 people, including 214 children, have been killed since the conflict began. Thirteen US service personnel have been killed since the start of the conflict, according to the Department of Defense. The first US-Israeli strikes on Iran began on 28 February with Israel's military saying it had targeted Iran's leadership and military infrastructure. The Supreme Leader of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was killed in Tehran during the initial strikes. BBC Verify has so far confirmed visual evidence of at least 191 attacks across Iran, including at least 81 strikes in Tehran. Internet connectivity remains highly restricted across the country, according to the monitoring group Netblocks, meaning it is difficult to establish a full picture. Last Wednesday the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) hit Iran's South Pars - part of the world's largest natural gas field. Satellite images reviewed by BBC Verify showed extensive damage to the facility, with black scorch marks clearly visible along with plumes of smoke. At the start of the war, at least 168 people including children were killed when a primary school in Minab, southern Iran, was hit on 28 February, Iranian authorities said. Experts who analysed a video showing a missile moments before it struck the IRGC base next to the school told BBC Verify the munition was a US Tomahawk. Neither Israel nor Iran are known to possess Tomahawks, experts said. Trump said on Saturday the US would "hit and obliterate" Iran's power plants unless it reopened the Strait of Hormuz within 48 hours. On Monday, Trump said he would "postpone any and all strikes against Iranian power plants and energy infrastructure" for a five-day period. Iran's energy network comprises about 500 power plants, according to the database OpenStreetMap, a mapping tool that allows volunteers to enter information on sites of interest. One of the largest, the Damavand power plant, provides electricity for approximately 10 million people in the province of Tehran. The government in Tehran said it would respond by targeting power and desalination facilities - which turn seawater into fresh water - in the Gulf region, the IRGC-affiliated Fars news agency reported. According to the US-based think tank the Center for Strategic and International Studies, Qatar gets 99% of its drinking water supplies by desalination and in Bahrain the figure is more than 90%. Israel's health ministry says 180 people were injured in what it said were Iranian missile strikes on two southern Israeli towns close to a nuclear facility. Iranian state TV said the strikes were in response to an attack on Iran's Natanz nuclear facility on Saturday. On Sunday, at least seven people were injured in an Iranian missile attack on Tel Aviv, emergency services say. The Israeli Air Force says Tehran has fired 400 missiles towards the country since 28 February. The IDF has intensified ground and air attacks against the Iran-backed Hezbollah group in Lebanon. It fired rockets into Israel following the killing of Ayatollah Khamenei at the start of the war. Since then more than 1,000 people have been killed in Lebanon, according to the Lebanese health ministry, including at least 118 children and 40 health workers. Israel defence minister Israel Katz said the IDF had been instructed to destroy crossings over the Litani river in southern Lebanon that were reportedly being used by Hezbollah. An Israeli air strike damaged the Qasmiye bridge on one of the main routes linking southern and central Lebanon near the coastal city of Tyre. Iran has continued to launch missile and drone strikes against the Gulf nations and has targeted energy facilities following the Israeli attack on South Pars. In Qatar, the state-run energy company said "significant damage" was caused after missile attacks on the Ras Laffan Industrial City - the country's main gas facility. Officials said the attacks had cut its export capacity by 17%. Iran has also launched a wave of strikes against shipping in the Strait of Hormuz. At least 100 ships have passed through the Strait of Hormuz since the start of March, according to data analysed by BBC Verify. About a third of these recent crossings were made by ships with connections to Iran. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iranian missiles have tried to target the joint US-UK military base in Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. Two missiles were launched last Friday - one failed and one was shot down, UK Defence Secretary John Healey says. Diego Garcia is nearly 4,000km (2,500 miles) from Iran and the Iranian attempt has raised alarms about the range of the country's missiles and fuelled fears that Iran could now also target much of Europe, even London. There are still doubts about the capability of Iranian missiles to reach targets so far away. But the one which failed last Friday managed to travel some 3,000km from its launching base. So how serious is this Iranian threat? The US and the UK will have had clear indications that Iran was trying to target Diego Garcia. They would have been watching the missiles in flight. The US Space Force is able to detect every missile launched from Iran from Buckley Space Force Base in Colorado. Last year the BBC was given rare access to film inside the control centre where they can watch the trajectory of any missile fired across the globe. They use a constellation of satellites from space and powerful radars on the ground  - including at RAF Fylingdales in the UK - which can track the missile from launch to target. The launch, however unsuccessful, suggests that Iran has not been transparent about its missile programme. Tehran has previously stated it had unilaterally limited the range of its missiles to 2,000km. But Israel now claims that Iranian missiles have double that range – up to 4,000km. That would put not just Diego Garcia in its sights, but also much of mainland Europe. Despite its own claims, Iran has long been known to have short-range ballistic missiles - with a maximum range of 3,000km. It is what they have been firing frequently at Israel and neighbouring Gulf nations over the past three weeks. Before the war, Iran was believed to have had stockpiles of more than 2,000 short-range ballistic missiles. Despite the US and Israel targeting these munitions, they are still being launched. Less clear is Iran's intermediate-range ballistic missile programme - with a range of between 3,000km to 5,500km. Sidharth Kaushal, a senior fellow at London-based think tank the Royal United Services Institute (Rusi), says that it was "long understood the Iranians had an Intermediate Range Ballistic Missile programme before this war started". He explained that assumption on the basis of two possible reasons. First, longer-range missiles would be required if Iran wanted to develop a nuclear weapon - which it has persistently denied, despite Western accusations. The second is that Iran has needed to develop longer-range rockets for its own space programme. It is still not clear what kind of missiles were fired at the US-UK base in the Indian Ocean. Kaushal says it could have been a version of Iran's Khorramshah missile -  which is based on a single-stage North Korean model. That had a range of more than 2,000km with a 1.5 tonne warhead. However, Kaushal says "you could very easily double that range by using a much lighter warhead", even though doing so would have probably caused limited damage to the base at Diego Garcia. Kaushal also said it was possible that Iran has been adapting rockets from its space programme. After all, Tehran has successfully put satellites into space and rockets like the Qaem 100 "were always understood to have dual-use capabilities". However, Iran is unlikely to have large numbers of intermediate or even long-range ballistic missiles. The US and Israel already targeted Iran's ballistic missile programme last year when they sought to destroy its nuclear programme. What's left is now being hunted down. The fact that Iran only fired two missiles towards Diego Garcia suggests its long-range missile capability is limited. If Iran chose to target Europe, there are already some precautions in place to deal with the threat. The US has long been concerned about the dangers of ballistic missiles being fired from the Middle East region. Under President Barack Obama, the US set up ballistic missile defence systems in Poland and Romania - all part of a Nato air defence umbrella. These Aegis Ashore systems fire the same interceptor missiles currently being used by the US Navy to shoot down Iranian ballistic missiles. Britain itself has very little in the way of ballistic missile defences - a glaring gap acknowledged in the government's recent Strategic Defence Review. But, for now, the threat seems remote. Kaushal says "it's conceivable" that an Iranian rocket "could reach London". "Missile range is an elastic thing - in that if you put a lighter warhead on a missile, you can extend its range," he told the BBC. This meant it was "not terribly surprising" that Iran could, in theory, reach the UK with its missiles, but "so what?" These would be "a small number of conventionally-armed ballistic missiles over well-defended airspace... and they're quite inaccurate at very long ranges". Research analyst Decker Eveleth of the CNA Corporation, a non-profit research and analysis organisation based in Washington DC, agreed. There are "a lot of unknowns with the design", he told the BBC. "When you increase the range, you're going much farther up into space, but that means you're also coming down a lot further… therefore your speed increases, you need to design better and better heat shields for your payload," he said. He added that "as your travel time increases, you're going to get compounding errors in your guidance system… the inaccuracy of your missile is going to increase". "It's true that a missile can reach London," he concluded, but added: "It is not going to be particularly aim-able." "I would say the level of risk to London is pretty low," Eveleth concluded. Justin Crump of intelligence company Sibylline said the key lesson from the attempted strike on Diego Garcia may not be about the capability of the missiles, but of the forces firing them. "Iran is still able to surprise the US and Israel after three weeks of bombing. Their forces may be degraded, but they are not on the ropes," Crump told the BBC. Additional reporting by Anna Lamche Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
For weeks, the US and Israel have insisted that Iran's military capacity has been severely degraded. US President Donald Trump and his defence secretary, Pete Hegseth, have repeatedly claimed that sustained strikes have crippled Iran's command structure and weakened its ability to respond. By their account, the conflict should already be moving towards an end. Yet the opposite appears to be happening. The escalation continues faster, sharper, and with fewer clear exit points. It emerged on Saturday that Iran had launched two missiles towards the US-UK base on Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean, a distance of around 3,800km (2,300 miles). Although the missiles did not reach the island, the incident has raised fresh concerns about Iran's capabilities. Until now, its missile range was widely believed to be about 2,000km. Whether this reflects a previously undisclosed capability or one developed under bombardment, the implication is the same: military pressure has not halted Iran's progress. If much of its leadership has indeed been eliminated, including the Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, senior figures such as Ali Larijani, commanders of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corp (IRGC) and the armed forces' chief of staff - and key missile manufacturing sites destroyed - then who is directing this campaign, and how has Iran managed to sustain its capabilities under such pressure? The uncertainty begins at the very top. Mojtaba Khamenei, who reportedly survived the strike that killed his father and several close family members, has since been named as the new leader. Yet he has not appeared in public. Beyond two written messages, nothing has been seen or heard from him. His condition remains unclear, and so does his ability to lead. In a system built on central authority, this silence creates uncertainty at the very centre of power. And yet, Iranian actions suggest anything but collapse. On Saturday Iran also struck the town of Dimona in Israel's Negev desert, an area linked to Israel's undeclared nuclear programme. That followed Israeli strikes on Iran's energy infrastructure near Bushehr, which also hosts Iran's nuclear power plant. The message was simple: escalation will be matched, and key sites are no longer off limits. These actions suggest coordination rather than confusion. The assumption behind US and Israeli strategy, that removing top leaders would lead to paralysis, now appears uncertain. The idea of "shock and awe" depends on decision-making structures collapsing quickly. But what if those structures are more resilient than expected? If that is the case, then a more immediate problem emerges: who is left to negotiate with? Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian has kept a low profile. Early in the conflict, he apologised to neighbouring countries affected by Iranian strikes, a move that reportedly angered elements within the IRGC. Since Mojtaba Khamenei's rise, he has said little, further narrowing diplomatic options. From Tehran's point of view, recent events offer little reason to trust any negotiations. In the 14 months since Trump returned to office, signs of progress towards a nuclear deal in two separate sets of negotiations have been followed by military action. Iranian officials say that during the second round of talks in Geneva on 27 February, they addressed most US concerns. Preparations were under way for technical discussions in Vienna. But Trump said he was "not happy" with the way the negotiations were going and strikes began the next day. For Iranian decision-makers, the message is clear: negotiation does not prevent attacks; it may even invite them. But it's not just Iran that can escalate the conflict, Trump also raised the stakes on Saturday night. He issued a 48-hour ultimatum demanding that Iran reopen the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world's busiest oil routes, warning that failure to comply would lead to the US "obliterating" Iranian power plants. Iran rejected the demand and responded with a similar threat: any attack on its energy infrastructure would be met with strikes across the region. Iran's Supreme Council of Defence also raised the possibility of mining parts of the Persian Gulf. This exchange highlights the risks ahead. Trump is moving quickly in a direction that leaves fewer options. Without troops on the ground, the United States and Israel can only strike from the air, causing damage, but not necessarily achieving the goal of total surrender. At the same time, such strikes could trigger wider retaliation, without reopening Hormuz. The exchange appeared to set both sides on a direct path towards a far more dangerous phase of the conflict. Yet only hours before the deadline was due to expire, Trump stepped back. In a post on Truth Social, he said there had been "very good and productive conversations" with Iran and announced a five-day pause on any planned strikes against Iranian energy infrastructure The timing is significant. Coming just ahead of his own ultimatum, the move creates a potential off-ramp, at least for now. Markets responded cautiously. Oil prices fell, reflecting some relief, but the reaction was measured. The announcement still needs to be tested in reality, and it remains unclear how long this pause will hold, or whether it reflects genuine movement towards negotiations. More fundamentally, the question persists: who in Iran is actually speaking, and who holds authority over the IRGC and security forces, which appear to be operating with a "fire at will" posture? If the situation continues and Hormuz remains contested, both sides could return to their threats, and the consequences could be severe. Around 170 million people across the region, including more than 90 million in Iran, could face serious disruption to electricity and other essential services. With limited channels for negotiation, President Trump's choices are narrowing. Further escalation risks becoming a cycle of destruction with little strategic gain, leaving only the most extreme options on the table. For Iran, the situation is also difficult. The country entered the conflict already under economic pressure and facing widespread unrest. The war has, for now, reduced that pressure, giving the authorities space to tighten internal control. This creates a difficult balance. Escalation for Iran serves both as a way to respond to external threats and to manage domestic unrest. But it also increases the risks of a costly mistake. Both sides are now limited in their choices. Iran cannot easily step back without appearing weak, while the US and Israel cannot achieve a decisive outcome through air power alone. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A British man jailed with his wife in Iran on espionage charges has said they feel frightened by the war and abandoned by the British government. It marks the first time that Craig and Lindsay Foreman have released a public statement via their family since the start of the conflict on 28 February. Mr Foreman said the couple, who were arrested in January 2025 while on a global motorbike journey, felt "let down, alone and completely frustrated". In the message, recorded over the phone by the couple's son, Joe Bennett, Mr Foreman said that evidence against them was fabricated by the Iranian authorities to justify a 10-year sentence - and the UK government is fully aware of their innocence. Speaking from the Evin jail in Tehran, Craig Foreman appealed to the government to state publicly that they are not spies. "It's very difficult to understand why our innocence has not been said publicly. We are not spies. The charges against us are simply not true," said Foreman. He also expressed anger at "a serious lack of commitment" for their safety. "We are now in prison in a war zone," he said. "We have gone from a challenging situation to a life-threatening one. You have chosen to give us zero information on what's happening to us, what to do and where to go if the prison doors were to open." In response, the Foreign Office said the welfare of British nationals continued to be a priority for the government. A statement added: "Craig and Lindsay's sentences are completely appalling and totally unjustifiable. We will continue to pursue this case relentlessly with the Iranian regime until we see Craig and Lindsay safely returned to the UK and reunited with their family." Lindsay and Craig Foreman, both 53 and from East Sussex, were transferred last summer from the city of Kerman to Evin prison – where Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe was held along with many political prisoners. The couple are being held in separate cells in "appalling" and deteriorating conditions, according to Mr Bennett. Bennett said there was no medical care and food supplies were becoming increasingly scarce. He also said they were sleeping in crowded cells on metal bunks with no mattresses, while recent explosions from the US-Israeli bombardment have struck close enough to send shockwaves through prison buildings. The couple were not informed when British embassy staff were temporarily pulled out of Iran last month, according to the family. "My mum is in pieces," said Mr Bennett. "She's gone from always finding the positive to feeling completely lost. The sense that she's been abandoned by her own government is breaking her." He added: "In the past few weeks I've had to have some of the hardest conversations of my life. I had to tell my parents they'd been sentenced to 10 years in prison. I had to tell them the British Embassy had closed. And I had to tell them that ministers had been advised not to say publicly that they are innocent, or call this what it is: arbitrary detention." Craig and Linsday Foreman had entered Iran despite Foreign Office advice - which warns against travelling to the country due to the risk of being arrested - but with valid visas, a tour guide and a pre-approved itinerary. The couple had been on a "once in a lifetime" motorbike journey from Europe to Australia and had only intended to be in Iran for a few days. Linsday Foreman, a life coach, had been asking people along the route what it means to live a good life. They were both given 10-year sentences last month, after a "sham trial", according to their family. Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper described the sentences at the time as "completely appalling and totally unjustified". She met Mr Bennett to discuss the case last week, but he expressed frustration afterwards, saying the government lacked a clear strategy or sense of urgency. "While France and Germany have secured the release of their citizens through assertive intervention, the UK remains trapped in a wait-and-see approach that has already cost my parents nearly 15 months of their lives," he said. The Foreign Office's website advice on not travelling to Iran states: "Having a British passport or connections to the UK can be reason enough for the Iranian authorities to detain you." Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Cleaning her home for the festival, one Iranian told us: "Perhaps this dark night will finally give way to dawn." Iranians speak about life during the war with constant threat of bombs and regime crackdowns. Social media footage shows flames leaping into the air and plumes of smoke above the city's skyline. A local in Tehran tell BBC Verify that the city has been turned into a "ghost town" as residents flee. The strikes were conducted by the US and Israel as part of Operation Epic Fury. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
There is "no assessment to substantiate" Israel's claim that Iran has long-range missiles capable of reaching London, a UK cabinet minister has said. Housing Secretary Steve Reed told the BBC there was "no specific assessment that the Iranians are targeting the UK - or even could if they wanted to", after the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said on Saturday that Tehran had weapons that could reach up to 4,000km (2,485 miles). It comes after it emerged Iran targeted the joint US-UK military base on the Chagos Islands in the Indian Ocean, around 3,800km from Iran. Reed refused to say how close the missiles came to the British overseas territory, saying he could not share "operational details". Iran fired two ballistic missiles at Diego Garcia - one of which failed and fell short, while the other was intercepted, Reed said. The intercepted missile disappeared after a US destroyer fired missiles at it, according to the Wall Street Journal, which first reported the strikes, citing US officials. After news of the attempted attack emerged, the IDF said on Saturday that it had revealed last year that Tehran had intended to develop missiles capable of reaching Europe, Asia and Africa. It added: "We have been saying it: The Iranian terrorist regime poses a global threat. Now, with missiles that can reach London, Paris or Berlin." Asked whether this was true, Reed insisted that there was "no specific assessment that the Iranians are targeting the UK or even could, if they wanted to". "We are perfectly capable of protecting this country and keeping this country safe, whether it's here at home, or whether it's our assets and nationals across the region," he told Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg. Pressed again about the IDF's comments, he said: "There is no assessment to substantiate what's being said." Even if Iran were able to launch strikes at such a range, the British armed forces would be able to defend the UK, he said. The longest-range weapon in Iran's arsenal is thought to have a maximum range of 2,000km, far short of both Diego Garcia and London - even if fired from just inside the nearest Iranian border. US President Donald Trump claimed days before the US and Israel began their strikes on Iran that it had developed missiles that could "threaten Europe" and was working towards building missiles capable of striking the US. Iran's foreign minister said earlier this month that his country had deliberately capped its missiles' range at 2,000km, as "we don't want to be felt as a threat by anybody else in the world". Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu insisted on Sunday that Iran had the "capacity to reach deep into Europe". Reed's Conservative counterpart Sir James Cleverly told the programme that Iran was deploying "very, very long-range missiles", but would not be drawn on whether these were capable of hitting the UK as he was no longer privy to the intelligence reports he had received as foreign secretary. Dr Sidharth Kaushal, a senior research fellow at the Royal United Services Institute, said: "Missile range is an elastic thing - in that if you put a lighter warhead on a missile, you can extend its range". He said that while it was "probably accurate" that Iran had missiles capable of reaching the UK, it was "not the most pressing threat" because these weapons are inaccurate at long distances and would have to travel through very well-defended airspace to enter UK airspace. He said: "The big question is: So what? If you can launch a small number of conventionally-armed ballistic missiles over well-defended airspace... and they're quite inaccurate at very long ranges… what would the Iranians be trying to achieve?" Sir Richard Shirreff, a retired British Army general and former Nato commander, said Israel's claims about Iranian capabilities should be taken "seriously, but as seriously as the potential for Russian missiles to come this way as well". "But I would also say that of course Israel is going to say this, because it is in Israel's interest to broaden the war, to bring as many nations in on this war," he told Broadcasting House on BBC Radio 4. The UK government has only allowed British airbases to be used for strikes on sites targeting UK interests and allies in the region. British forces operating in the Middle East have also shot down multiple Iranian drones since the start of the conflict. On Sunday, the Ministry of Defence said a ground-based unit operating in a "high threat area" had downed a drone overnight. On Friday, the government expanded targets under this "collective self-defence" justification to include Iranian sites being used to threaten vessels travelling through the Strait of Hormuz - a key shipping route through which a fifth of the world's oil flows. Along with RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire, the UK has given the US permission to use Diego Garcia to conduct these bombing raids. The attempted Iranian attack on Diego Garcia came before this latest decision was made, it is understood. Reed denied the UK was seeking to escalate the war, adding it was "necessary to adapt to the new targets that the Iranians are focusing on". Sir James said the government had made a "misstep" by initially denying the US permission to use British bases earlier in the war that had "damaged our credibility in the international sphere". "We're relying on other countries to protect British personnel, British nationals and British interests and that is not the position we should be." The Liberal Democrats and Green Party have said the move risks broadening the UK's involvement in the conflict, and are demanding that Parliament should be given a vote on allowing the US to use British bases for strikes. Reed rejected these calls, arguing there was "no precedent for a vote in Parliament for defending British people who are under attack". Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to keep up with the inner workings of Westminster and beyond. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Israel's health ministry says 180 people were injured - some seriously - in Iranian missile strikes on two southern Israeli towns close to a nuclear facility. The ministry says 116 people were injured in Arad and another 64 in Dimona, after ballistic missiles hit the towns on Saturday evening. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) says it is not aware of any damage to the nuclear research facility located about 13km (eight miles) outside Dimona. Iranian state TV earlier said the strikes were in response to an attack on Iran's Natanz nuclear facility on Saturday. On Sunday, at least seven people were injured in an Iranian missile attack on Tel Aviv, emergency services say. The Israeli Air Force says Tehran has fired 400 missiles at Israel since the US-Israeli attack on Iran on 28 February. Of these, 92% were intercepted, it adds. In Arad, local residents said the blasts they heard on Saturday were terrifying. The missile badly damaged several buildings, leaving a deep crater. Naram Zaid, a paramedic in the town, told BBC News she had seen a "lot of children with head and chest injuries" after being crushed by objects inside a damaged building. "I was trying to reassure a 10-year-old girl with head injuries, with blood on her face from broken glass," she added. "She was refusing to get into the ambulance as her parents were still inside the building, and we waited for her parents to be evacuated from the destroyed apartment block and then we sent them all to hospital." The outside walls of two residential apartment buildings were gouged out by the impact. Crowds of dark-suited men stood staring at the damage in this Ultra-Orthodox town in the Negev desert. The nearby town of Dimona experienced a similar missile strike. Among the many injured there was a 10-year-old boy. Medics described his condition as serious. "In both Dimona and Arad, interceptors were launched that failed to hit the threats, resulting in two direct hits by ballistic missiles with warheads weighing hundreds of kilograms," Israeli firefighters said. Ahmadiel Ben Yehuda lives a two-minute walk from the street where the missile hit in Dimona and says he was on the steps to the bomb shelter when it struck. "There is damage to all the houses in our community - many collapsed ceilings and windows blow in - including in my own house." Ben Yehuda says he went to visit the street where the missile landed and "the entire area is just devastated, including a kindergarten". He knows several people whose apartments were completely destroyed. "I felt horror. I just can't believe the power of what a missile can do to concrete, to see the devastation is hard to comprehend." Both Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President Isaac Herzog visited the impacted sites on Sunday. The ability of Iran to keep inflicting this kind of damage inside Israel is a reminder of the human cost of the war. Urgent investigations are taking place to ascertain how the missiles breached Israel's air defence system. But as in the 12-day war last summer, Israelis know that the system is not infallible. As then, such attacks are more likely to harden the public's resolve rather than weaken it. The Shimon Peres Negev Nuclear Research Center - located in the Negev desert - is often referred to colloquially as the "Dimona reactor". It is long accepted as holding Israel's undeclared arsenal of nuclear weapons. Officially, the site is said to focus solely on research but for about six decades, it has been an open secret that Israel developed a nuclear bomb there, even if each succeeding government has maintained a position of ambiguity over this. It has meant that Israel is the only nuclear power in the Middle East. So any indication that it is being targeted is taken with the utmost gravity by Israel. Both Israel and the US have set the elimination of any possible Iranian capacity to develop a nuclear bomb as the key aim of the war. Iran's own Atomic Energy Organisation described the attack on Natanz as a violation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, though it said "no leakage of radioactive materials" was reported and there was "no danger to residents of the surrounding areas". Natanz was also targeted in the first days of the war, which started on 28 February, by US-Israeli strikes, as well as during the 12-day war last June. Asked about Natanz on Saturday, the Israel Defense Forces told Israeli and international media that they were not aware of a strike in the area. Additional reporting by Tom Bennett and Gabriela Pomeroy The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A queue stretches down a street in east London. It is for Logma, a newly opened Iranian-Iraqi cafe in Hackney that has gone viral for its sandwiches - which sell out within an hour or two. Many are drawn in by pictures they have seen on Instagram and start queuing around noon at the weekend. Despite being the most popular item on the menu, the owners confess the sandwiches were "kind of a mistake" born out of their decision to open before having any plates or cutlery. Couple Ziad Halub and Farsin Rabiee ran a popular series of sold-out supper clubs in London before opening Logma, just days before protests broke out in Iran and spread across the country. Rabiee says the timing of starting their business has been "bittersweet". "It's been a very difficult period for myself as an Iranian and many Iranians," he says. The couple opened Logma on 21 December to mark Yalda, an Iranian celebration for the winter solstice. Days later, the protests broke out. Authorities reacted with a violent crackdown on protesters and a near-complete shutdown of Iran's internet access to the outside world. According to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (Hrana), at least 7,000 people were killed in January, including 6,488 protesters and 236 children. Halub and Rabiee responded by offering free coffee and halva, a sweet given out at funerals, to anyone affected by the situation and wanting to mourn. As Iranians gathered to celebrate the Persian New Year, the country is under US-Israeli bombardment and yet another state-imposed internet blackout. At 21 days, it is the longest in the country's history, according to monitoring group NetBlocks. Rabiee says: "Some days have felt a bit like: how do we promote a culture or make food from a culture when everyone is mourning? Everyone is in pain, everyone is stressed, but I think it was more important than ever to do so." Logma's Iranian customers seem to feel the same, popping in for regular visits and swapping updates on who has heard from their families. One regular, Shadan, says Logma feels like a living room – particularly for those who live in exile or far from home. Ava, another Iranian customer, says: "Food always brings people together and it's nice to show the positive sides of Persian culture, even in a difficult time." Atoosa Sepehr, an author and nutritional therapist, attests to the unique power of food in providing comfort and bringing people together. Sepehr first found comfort in Iranian food when she moved abroad. Inspired by the experience, she wrote a cookbook and her life story was later turned into a play. "When I came here, I started missing my home a lot […] and one thing that really really helped me was the food, because I noticed as soon as I get Persian ingredients out of the cupboard, the smell takes me back home," she says. "I started cooking, learning, calling my parents, my grandma, my aunt, to learn the recipes and that was my comfort and that was my way of getting back again." These days, she finds herself turning to Iranian food once more, worried for what will happen in her home country and unable to contact family. She says: "When the smell of Persian food is up in my flat, if I close my eyes, I feel like I am sitting next to my mum and dad." The owners of Logma say it is common for people to come in and cry, laugh, share stories, or learn more from other people sitting around the table with them. Their space was designed with interactions like these in mind. "There's one long communal table, many people have made friends here," says Halub. "When people come here, they sort of let their guard down. They feel like they're in their grandma's house." Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk Dawn Fearns says the custard slice tour is also a nostalgic reminder of her childhood and late mother. A report shows an increased demand for local fruit and veg and shows producers can make a tidy profit. Former pupils say Mossbourne’s strict discipline caused lasting harm and are urging a national inquiry. Family First said demand had "continued to decline" and it was "no longer financially sustainable". A Staffordshire farmer says the industry will struggle to absorb rising costs. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The foreign secretary has said the UK will continue to provide defensive support against "reckless Iranian threats" but insisted it would not be drawn into a wider conflict in the Middle East. Yvette Cooper was speaking after it emerged Tehran had targeted the joint US-UK military base in the Chagos Islands, with reports of two ballistic missiles being fired at the island of Diego Garcia. Supporting UK interests included taking defensive action against ballistic missile threats, she added. Cooper said the UK recognised "Iran's escalating threats to international shipping as well as their threats to our Gulf partners" and reiterated that it wanted to see a swift end to the conflict. The Wall Street Journal and CNN reported on ballistic missiles being fired at Diego Garcia, citing unnamed US officials, but said that neither weapon reached its target. One of the missiles reportedly failed in flight, while the other was intercepted by a US warship. The BBC understands the reports are accurate. There are doubts whether Iran has missiles which are capable of reaching Diego Garcia, which is about 2,350 miles from Iran. The BBC understands the missiles were fired by Iran sometime during the period late on Thursday night into Friday morning. Initial information had been limited only to the fact the incident had happened before Friday afternoon, when ministers met in London to discuss the war and the UK agreed to let the US use British military bases to hit Iranian sites targeting shipping through the Strait of Hormuz. The US military has declined to comment on the incident. The foreign secretary reiterated the UK government's position in her interview on Saturday. "As the prime minister has made clear we will provide defensive support against these reckless Iranian threats but we have not been - and we continue not to be - involved in offensive action," she said. "We will not be drawn into a wider conflict because we think we need to see as swift as possible resolution in the UK national interest but also to support regional stability." The airbase on Diego Garcia is strategically located, is capable of accommodating long-range bombers and has been used as a launchpad for operations in the Middle East for years. Its use in US strikes on Iran has been limited as the UK government has only allowed British airbases to be used for strikes on sites targeting UK interests and allies in the region. Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer spoke to the Cypriot president on Saturday to reiterate that RAF Akrotiri would not be one of the bases used by the US to target Iranian missile sites. Tehran launched several unmanned drones at the military base in Cyprus, one of which struck its runway causing "minimal" damage earlier this month. Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said this week that the UK's participation was "putting British lives in danger" and that Iran would "exercise its right to self-defence". The Liberal Democrats and the Greens have called for a vote in the Commons on allowing the US to use UK bases, while Conservative leader Kemi Badenoch calling the decision the "mother of all U-turns". Sir Keir will separately hold a Cobra meeting next week on plans to help mitigate the impact of the war on the cost of living. The International Energy Agency expects the disruption to oil supply to affect wider energy markets. Cooper said on Saturday that Iran's "reckless attempt to hijack the global economy" was affecting the cost of living and supporting families was the government's "top priority". She cited how the energy cap would "lower energy bills in the spring", while the government had announced support to help offset the rise in the price of heating oil. The UK government has agreed to cede sovereignty of the Chagos Islands to Mauritius and lease back the base on Diego Garcia. Sir Keir has previously insisted the deal was necessary to protect the continued operation of the base, amid previous attempts from Mauritius to dispute the legality of British sovereignty over the islands. The Chagos Islands have been under British control since 1814. They were administered from Mauritius, another British colony. In 1965, the Chagos Islands were made a British overseas territory in their own right, ahead of Mauritius gaining independence, and the UK government paid Mauritius a £3m grant in compensation. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Three weeks after the joint US-Israeli war against Iran began, the conflict has reached a fuzzy state of mixed messages and uncertainty, with Donald Trump's public comments often seemingly contradicted by realities on the ground. The war is "very complete, pretty much", the US president has said, but new American ground forces – including a Marine expeditionary unit – are moving into the region. It is "winding down", but US and Israeli bombing and missile strikes on Iranian targets continue unabated. Opening the Strait of Hormuz, the geographic choke point through which 20% of the world's oil export travels, is a "simple military manoeuvre", but for now only Iranian-approved ships are transiting the waters. The Iranian military is "gone", but drones and missiles are still striking targets in the region and targets have extended as far as the joint US-UK base in Diego Garcia. In a Saturday evening post on Truth Social, Trump threatened an escalation, warning that if Iran didn't "fully open, without threat" Hormuz in 48 hours, the US military would begin targeting Iranian power plants, "starting with the biggest". The day before, however, he had used his social media website to provide a numbered list of American military objectives for the Iran war, which he said the US was "getting really close" to fulfilling. The items, comprising his most detailed statement on the subject since the war began, included degrading or destroying Iran's military, its defence infrastructure and its nuclear weapons programme, as well as protecting American allies in the region. Not included was the goal of securing the Strait of Hormuz, which Trump said should be the responsibility of other nations that are more dependent on oil exports from the Gulf. The president has frequently noted that the US is a net exporter of energy and does not rely on oil from the Middle East – although such a view glosses over the global nature of the fossil fuel market, where price fluctuations directly impact the price at American petrol pumps. Trump's Truth Social post also made no call for Iranian regime change. Gone are any references to approving the nation's next leader or "unconditional surrender", which Trump had insisted on in the early days of the war. In Trump's latest outline of his objectives, it is possible that the US could end its operation with Iran's current anti-American leadership in power, its oil exports still flowing and its ability to assert some measure of control over the Strait of Hormuz intact. If that is an unappealing resolution to a war that the president and his aides have said began with the 1979 Iran Revolution and that they would finish, there is an alternative route that involves the US ground forces presently on the way to the Middle East region. Just over a week ago, US media reported that a Marine expeditionary unit, with about 2,500 combat soldiers and supporting ships and aircraft, had been dispatched from Japan to the Middle East, which it should reach in the coming days. Another Marine force of similar size recently departed its base in California with its arrival expected in mid-April. Military analysts have suggested that the US could be planning to capture Kharg Island, a slice of land about 21 sq km (8 sq miles) in size that contains Iran's primary oil export terminal. Doing so could, in theory, cut off the nation's oil shipments, depriving the nation of much-needed revenue and forcing it to make greater concessions to the Americans in exchange for an end to hostilities. Trump on Friday said that he wasn't sending ground troops to Iran, but added: "If I were, I certainly wouldn't tell you". Clarity, it seems, is not his intention. The threat of such a move prompted Iran's state media to report on Saturday that any attack on Kharg Island would lead Iran to cause "insecurity" in the Red Sea, another key global shipping transit point, and "set fire" to energy facilities throughout the region. Iran's warning underscores the dangers that would accompany a US escalation that further exposes American military forces to Iranian reprisals. Earlier this week, US media reported that the Trump administration was preparing to ask Congress for $200bn (£150bn) in emergency funding for the ongoing Iranian military operation. Such a request would suggest that, far from winding down, the White House is preparing for a long, expensive fight. The initial reaction from Congress, including from Trump's Republican allies, was cautious at best. "We're talking about boots on the ground. We're talking about that kind of extended activity," said Republican Congressman Chip Roy of Texas. "They have got a whole lot more briefing and a whole lot more explaining to do on how we're going to pay for it, and what's the mission here." The so-called "fog of war" doesn't just cloud the thinking of military planners, it also affects the perception of politicians and the public. The Iran war, it seems, is at a pivot. But which direction it takes from here is a puzzle. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The UK has agreed to allow the US to use British bases to launch strikes on Iranian sites targeting the Strait of Hormuz. Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer previously allowed US forces to use the bases only for defensive operations to prevent Iran firing missiles that put British interests or lives at risk. Downing Street said on Friday that ministers had approved an expansion of the targets to help protect ships in the vital oil shipping channel, still on the basis of "collective self-defence". US President Donald Trump said the UK "should have acted a lot faster", while Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi claimed Sir Keir was "putting British lives in danger". Iran fired two ballistic missiles at Diego Garcia but neither hit the joint US-UK base on the Chagos Islands, in the Indian Ocean, the Wall Street Journal and CNN reported overnight into Saturday, citing unnamed US officials. One missile reportedly failed in flight, while the other was intercepted by a US warship. It is unclear when the missiles were supposedly fired, while the US military declined to comment on the incident. The unsuccesful air strike occurred before the UK agreed to let the US use British military bases to hit Iranian sites targeting shipping through the strait on Friday. The UK will still not be directly involved in the US strikes and Downing Street said "the principles behind the UK's approach to the conflict remain the same". Conservative Party leader Kemi Badenoch said the decision was the "mother of all U-turns" in a post on X. Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman Calum Miller said the government's decision showed the UK was "being drawn further and further down Trump's slippery slope". He called on Sir Keir to allow Parliament to vote on the terms of the agreement with the US for their use of UK bases. Green Party leader Zack Polanski said it was "another worrying escalation" and said MPs "must be given a vote on our involvement". The UK bases used by the US have been RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire and Diego Garcia, part of the Chagos Islands in the Indian Ocean. Trump told reporters of the UK's decision: "It's been a very late response from the UK. "Surprised because the relationship is so good but this has never happened before. They were really pretty much our first ally all over the world." The US president earlier called Nato allies "cowards" for refusing to offer warships to facilitate the reopening of the shipping channel and claimed reopening the strait would be a "simple" military task with "little risk". UK military planners have joined the US Central Command to look at options for getting tankers through the strait, which has been effectively closed by the threat of Iranian attacks in retaliation to a bombing campaign by the US and Israel. Just under 100 ships have passed through the strait since the start of March, according to data analysed by BBC Verify. Before the war, about 138 ships passed through the strait each day, carrying a fifth of the global oil supply, according to the Joint Maritime Information Centre. A Downing Street spokesperson said of Friday's discussions by ministers: "They agreed that Iran's reckless strikes, including on Red Ensign vessels and those of our close allies and Gulf partners, risked pushing the region further into crisis and worsening the economic impact being felt in the UK and around the world. "They confirmed that the agreement for the US to use UK bases in the collective self-defence of the region includes US defensive operations to degrade the missile sites and capabilities being used to attack ships in the Strait of Hormuz." Downing Street added ministers wanted "urgent de-escalation and a swift resolution to the war". The expansion comes after Iran's foreign minister warned the UK that Tehran views its choice to let the US use British bases as "participation in aggression". In his account of the call with UK Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper, Araghchi said he had also criticised the "negative and biased" approach of the UK and demanded that it cease any co-operation with the US. The Foreign Office said Cooper had condemned Iran's "reckless attacks" and its "disruption and closure of the Strait of Hormuz". A spokesperson said she had also called for "an immediate comprehensive moratorium on all attacks on civilian infrastructure, including oil and gas installations". Araghchi later wrote on X: "Ignoring his own people, Mr Starmer is putting British lives in danger by allowing UK bases to be used for aggression against Iran. "Iran will exercise its right to self-defence." Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Donald Trump has said he is considering "winding down" the Iran war because the US was "getting very close" to meeting its military objectives. He also said the Strait of Hormuz would have to be guarded by other nations who use it, stating that the US wasn't one of them. Energy prices have soared since Iran effectively closed the shipping route after the conflict began last month. Iran's new supreme leader, meanwhile, said the country had dealt "a dizzying blow" to the enemy. Trump has previously indicated the war was almost over, only for it to escalate. The White House this week requested $200bn more in funding for the conflict. More troops and warships are being sent to the region. On Friday afternoon in Washington, Trump told reporters from outside the White House as he prepared to embark for Florida: "I don't want to do a ceasefire. "You don't do a ceasefire when you're literally obliterating the other side." But as he set off to Palm Beach, Trump posted on Truth Social: "We are getting very close to meeting our objectives as we consider winding down our great Military efforts in the Middle East with respect to the Terrorist Regime of Iran." On the Strait of Hormuz, Trump said it "will have to be guarded and policed, as necessary, by other Nations who use it - The United States does not!" Earlier in the day he pilloried Nato allies for refusing to help the US reopen the strait, insisting in a Truth Social post that it would be a "simple" military manoeuvre. "So easy for them to do, with so little risk," posted the president. "COWARDS, and we will REMEMBER!" It is not the first time Trump has indicated the war could soon draw to a close. On 9 March, he told CBS in a phone interview: "I think the war is very complete, pretty much." In public remarks in Florida the same day he said the Iran war would be over "pretty quickly". However, sources told the BBC's US partner CBS on Friday that Pentagon officials have made detailed preparations to deploy ground forces into Iran. The planning includes conversations about how the US would handle the detention of Iranian soldiers if there were American troops in the country, CBS cited two of the officials as saying. The US military is also preparing to deploy some 2,500 Marines and warships to the region, Reuters news agency reported. US news outlet Axios reported that the administration was considering plans to occupy or blockade Kharg Island, off the coast of Iran. The US military has already this month bombed the island, home to a major oil terminal that is considered Iran's economic lifeline. "The United States Military can take out Kharg Island at any time," a White House official told the BBC. Speaking to the BBC, retired Colonel Mark Cancian said it could take between a week and 30 days for the extra US troops to arrive in the Middle East. The senior adviser for the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a think tank, said: "So there's going to be reinforcements, but it's going to take a while for all of them to get there." Oil prices have jumped about 50% since the US and Israel launched military strikes on 28 February. With a global energy shock looming, the Trump administration said on Friday that it would waive sanctions on Iran to allow the sale of 140m barrels of oil that have been stranded on tankers since the war began. The soaring prices at the petrol pump are a daily reminder of the war's cost for Americans, threatening potential political fallout for Trump's fellow Republicans in November's congressional elections. Iran meanwhile launched a new wave of drone and missile attacks on Saudi Arabia and Israel. To mark Nowruz, the Persian New Year, the new Iranian Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei issued a defiant written statement on Friday. Khamenei said Iranians have "dealt him [the enemy] a dizzying blow so that he now starts uttering contradictory words and nonsense". "At the moment, due to the particular unity that has been created between you our compatriots... the enemy has been defeated," he added. Khamenei has not been seen in public since the Israeli attack that killed his father and predecessor Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on the war's first day. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iranian strikes on military bases used by the US in the Middle East caused about $800m (£600m) in damage in the first two weeks of the war, a new analysis shows. Much of the damage was caused in initial retaliatory strikes by Iran in the week after the US and Israel launched the war, according to a report by the Center for Strategic & International Studies (CSIS) and an analysis by the BBC. The full extent of the damage caused by Iranian strikes on US assets in the region is not clear. But the $800m in estimated damage to US military infrastructure - a figure that's higher than has been previously reported - offers a picture of the steep costs to the US as the conflict drags on. "The damage to US bases in the region has been underreported," said Mark Cancian, a CSIS senior adviser and co-author of the think tank study. "Although that appears to be extensive, the full amount won't be known until more information is available." In response to a request for comment, the US Department of Defense referred the BBC to US Central Command, which is leading the war. Officials there declined to comment. Iran's retaliatory strikes targeted US air-defence and satellite-communication systems, among other assets, in Jordan, the United Arab Emirates and other countries across the Middle East. A significant portion of damage was caused by a strike on a US radar for a Thaad missile defence system at an air base in Jordan. The ANTPY-2 radar system costs approximately $485m according to a CSIS review of defence department budget documents. The air-defence systems are used for the long-range interception of ballistic missiles. Strikes by Iran caused an additional $310m in estimated damage to buildings, facilities and other infrastructure on US bases and military bases used by American forces in the region. Iran also has struck at least three air bases more than once, according to an analysis of satellite imagery by BBC Verify. The repeat strikes underscore Iran's efforts to target specific US assets. Russia has reportedly shared intelligence with Tehran on American military forces in the region. Satellite imagery shows the three air bases - Ali Al-Salim base in Kuwait, Al-Udeid in Qatar and Prince Sultan in Saudi Arabia - with fresh damage appearing during different phases of the conflict. The US has also lost 13 military service members since President Donald Trump joined Israel in launching the attacks on Iran on 28 February. The US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (Hrana) estimates the overall death toll has reached nearly 3,200, including 1,400 civilians. Trump has said the US is on track to achieve his goals of destroying Iran's nuclear program, degrading its conventional military power, and ending the regime's support for proxy groups in the region. "We're doing extremely well in Iran," Trump said at a White House event on Friday. But the war has rattled the global economy with the near-closure of the Strait of Hormuz, and uncertainty over the duration of the conflict and whether Trump will deploy ground troops. Analysis of satellite imagery has been hampered by restrictions imposed by major US-based providers on the release of the imagery. But it is possible to discern certain patterns in Iran's retaliatory action against US military interests in the region. Radar and satellite systems have been a focus from the start, when Iranian strikes hit a US naval base in Bahrain. They function as the eyes and ears of modern military operations. Satellite imagery most notably showed the destruction of two radomes - protective enclosures for such sensitive equipment. It is highly probable the systems themselves were damaged, although it is not possible to gauge the extent. Radar sites were hit at Camp Arifjan, a US military facility in Kuwait, and Saudi Arabia's Prince Sultan Air Base, where US aircraft are located. Imagery of the latter shows smoke rising from a radar component for a Thaad air-defence system. More extensive damage to Thaad systems is evident at US bases in the UAE and Jordan. It's unclear what the cost of that damage was. The degradation of these systems reportedly led the US to redeploy Thaad components from South Korea to the Middle East. The damage from Iran's retaliatory strikes  account for a fraction of the overall costs to the US for the war. Defense department officials reportedly briefed members of Congress that the first six days of the war had cost $11.3bn. The first 12 days cost 16.5bn, according to CSIS. The Pentagon is asking for another $200bn in funding for the war. Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said on Thursday that the figure "could move." "It takes money to kill bad guys," Hegseth said. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran's foreign minister has warned the UK it views its choice to let the US use British bases as "participation in aggression," in a phone call with Yvette Cooper. In his account of the call with the UK foreign secretary, Seyyed Abbas Araghchi said he had also criticised the "negative and biased" approach of the UK and demanded that it cease any cooperation with the United States. The UK did not allow the US to use its bases for initial offensive attacks against Iran but subsequently gave permission for them to be used for defensive action on Iranian missile strikes. The Foreign Office said Cooper had condemned Iran's "reckless attacks" and its "disruption and closure of the Strait of Hormuz". A spokesperson said she had also called for "an immediate comprehensive moratorium on all attacks on civilian infrastructure, including oil and gas installations". "The foreign secretary made clear to the foreign minister that the defensive UK operations in the region were a response to the Iranian aggression against Gulf partners countries who had not attacked Iran. "The foreign secretary also warned Iran against targeting UK bases, territory or interests directly and restated the UK's focus on regional stability and security." US President Donald Trump has repeatedly and vehemently criticised the UK for not getting more involved in the conflict. British PM Sir Keir Starmer has defended his stance, saying: "It is for me to act in what I consider to be the best interests of Britain". Araghchi posted his summary of the conversation with the UK's foreign secretary in a post in Farsi on the social media site Telegram. He said he told Cooper: "These actions will definitely be considered as participation in aggression and will be recorded in the history of relations between the two countries. "At the same time, we reserve our inherent right to defend the country's sovereignty and independence." He also said he criticised the UK for condemning Iran's "retaliatory action" following Israel's attack on the South Pars natural gas field in Iran. Tehran responded to the strike by targeting an energy complex in Qatar. Earlier this week Trump urged countries including the UK to support efforts to reopen the oil shipping channel, the Strait of Hormuz. The number of ships passing through the strait has plummeted since the conflict began, with Iran threatening to attack certain vessels with drones and missiles. The blockage has caused a dramatic rise in the price of oil and gas prices, triggering turbulence in the financial markets. Sir Keir has said he is working with allies on a "viable, collective plan" to reopen the strait. He has warned that the longer the conflict continues, "the bigger the impact on the cost of living," adding that "the best way forward is a negotiated settlement with Iran". The Green Party of England and Wales has urged the UK government to withdraw permission for the US to use its military bases for attacks on Iran and "refuse any further complicity in this illegal war". In a letter to the prime minister, Green Party MPs and peers ask the government to set out what action it was taking to ensure military bases were only being used for defensive purposes. It also asked for an assessment of how many Iranian civilians had been killed by "US bombing missions from British air bases". The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Dozens of US bombers have taken off from RAF Fairford in the several weeks since the United States was authorised to use the base for defensive strikes on Iran. Sir Keir Starmer announced on 1 March that the UK had agreed to the request from the US. The base, located on the border of Gloucestershire and Wiltshire, has been used by the US in the past to conduct long-range heavy bombing missions. The move comes after the US and Israel began attacking Iran on Saturday 28 February and President Donald Trump encouraged Iranians to remove their government. The UK has "played no role" in strikes in the Middle East, Sir Keir said. "You can't avoid being drawn in if you're a country like the UK," said Robert Macaire, who was British ambassador to Iran from 2018 to 2021. The Royal Air Force station is located in the Cotswolds about four miles (6.4km) south of the town of Fairford, which sits along the River Coln. The countryside area is typically quiet, but about 170,000 people descend on the RAF site every July for the Royal International Air Tattoo, which is the largest military air show in the world. Since it opened in January 1944, RAF Fairford has been used for various reasons. The United States Air Force (USAF) 501st Combat Support Wing manages and supports operations and the site is predominantly used by USAF heavy bombers like the B-1B Lancer, the B-2A Spirit and the B-52H Stratofortress. It also routinely supports Bomber Task Force operations. Due to its long runway, Fairford was used as the test centre for Concorde aircraft until 1977. During World War Two, the RAF's No.620 Squadron's fleet used the base for airborne forces operations which included parachute drops of troops and supplies and towing Airspeed Horsa assault gliders. Troop carriers and gliders from Fairford were used for the Normandy landings on 6 June 1944. The site was also used to lift British troops for Operation Market Garden in the German-occupied Netherlands in September 1944. In the Cold War, USAF Strategic Air Command units occupied Fairford and other RAF bases to build up a deterrent in Europe against the Soviets. Bombers and tankers from Eaker Air Force Base in Arkansas were deployed from Fairford in the first Gulf War in 1991. The station was used also during the Iraq War of 2003. Since 1 March, US heavy bombers have been taking off from RAF Fairford "for defensive missions to destroy Iran's missile capabilities," according to the Ministry of Defence (MoD). "The United States has started using British bases for specific defensive operations to prevent Iran firing missiles into the region, which is putting British lives at risk,"  an MoD spokesperson said. "This is alongside the defensive action the UK is taking to protect British people across the region." Nearby residents and plane spotters have reported aircraft including B-1 and B-52 bombers taking off in the early hours of the morning, with the noise so loud it causes houses to shake. Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean is also being used by the US for strikes on Iranian missile sites. In civil aviation, night flights are heavily restricted to minimise disruption to residents. For example at London Heathrow only 5,800 flights a year are allowed to take off or land between 23:30 and 06:00. However, in both civil and military aviation there is no formal ban on night flying and military aircraft are often on standby 24 hours a day. Therefore, during operational periods such as this, activity at RAF Fairford should be expected throughout the day and night. William Eliason, 39, a former member of the USAF now living in Oxfordshire said: "I've heard folks posting on Facebook and other social media that they're not happy with the engine tests that the maintainers are doing at 01:00. "Unfortunately...they kind of have to do their work, and if there's no rejection from command, they're going to do it." After the US and Israel attacked Iran, the Iranian regime retaliated with attacks on US assets and countries in the region with a US military presence, including Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Iraq. A British RAF base in Cyprus was hit by a drone strike on 1 March, while Iran's foreign minister has warned the UK it sees its choice to let the US use British bases as "participation in aggression" in a phone call with Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper. Rob Macaire, who lives in Marlborough, Wiltshire, served as the UK ambassador to Iran from 2018 until 2021. He said it was "looking increasingly likely" the tension would reach the scale it has given the "huge" build up and coordination between the US and Israel. "I think when you get a military clash as serious and as large-scale as this you get into territories where it's completely unpredictable and no one can see where it's going to go," said Macaire. "I think the government has done what you'd expect it to do which was to stay out of these initial attacks on Iran… but you can't avoid being drawn in if you're a country like the UK," he said. "We have a lot of people in the Gulf, we have a lot of interest in the Gulf, we have military assets in the Gulf," said Macaire. "When they come under attack, obviously there's a question of self defence, so I think the government has taken the steps you'd expect it to take at this stage." Will Stone, MP for North Swindon, it was important to be "very clear" that the use of RAF Fairford in the US-Israel war with Iran would be for "a defensive purpose and not any offensive action". "It's the difference between stopping [Iran] striking other places and striking at them," he said. Stone added that the UK had to defend its troops and families in the Middle East and Cyprus and support its allied countries. He said he hoped the conflict could come to "a swift resolution". "That would be the ideal situation for everybody to have a diplomatic solution which brings Iran around the table, ceasing their nuclear weapon programme," he added. Many residents living near the air force base told the BBC they had no concerns over the government's decision. Glyn Williams, who has lived in Fairford for 15 years, said the "wonderful" town would probably be "a little more noisy than usual". Jennifer Cox said she was not worried about the site's role in the conflict, but also acknowledged the noise from the military aircraft. "We chose to live here... why make a fuss about it?" she said. Janet Kirk, who has lived in Fairford her whole life, said she does not take a lot of notice of the station. "It's always been used... it's something you get used to if you live near it," she said. Jim Downs, an RAF veteran who lives in Swindon, told BBC Radio Gloucestershire that he agreed with the government's decision to let American troops use the base. "They're protecting us and they're doing a good job," he said. "It's nice to see that the USA is backing us as well because they've got an amazing amount of power and military power." "It gives you a little bit of comfort to know that they're there," he added. Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. Zac Summers-Cameron died in 2025, aged 22, after his testicular cancer was originally misdiagnosed. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Lester Murphy says he wants to inspire others who have been diagnosed the neurological disorder. A collection of photos from Bristol, Somerset, Wiltshire and Gloucestershire in early spring. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
India could be one of the biggest beneficiaries of a tentative US rethink on Iranian oil, as Washington weighs options to ease pressure on strained global energy markets. US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said in an interview with Fox that the administration was considering easing restrictions on Iranian oil already at sea. Such a move could release tens of millions of barrels into global markets to offset war-driven disruptions to shipping and production. For India, which imports 90% of its oil and has a track record of snapping up discounted supplies, even a limited opening could offer both relief and opportunity, experts say. Bessent floated the idea as a way to ease tightening global supply amid war-driven disruptions to shipping and production. If pursued, it would mark a striking and uncertain reversal of long-standing US policy. By allowing Iranian cargo currently on water - he put the figure at about 140 million barrels - to reach buyers, US hopes to ease supply tightness and temper prices, if only for 10 to 14 days. At the moment, China is the main buyer of oil from Iran. It is not clear how the oil at sea will be sold, but Asian consumers, including India, Japan and Malaysia, may benefit, Bessent said. India could sit at the centre of this recalibration. More than 60% of its crude imports come from the Gulf - primarily Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the UAE. Half of these imports travel through the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow Gulf chokepoint now effectively closed by the conflict. "India could emerge as a key demand centre to watch, alongside Chinese buyers (state-owned companies and private refiners) and other Asian countries," according to Sumit Ritolia, a refinery and oil markets analyst at maritime intelligence firm Kpler. Historically, India was a major buyer of Iranian crude, with imports peaking at around 11.5% of its total intake before sanctions tightened in 2018. Iranian Light and Heavy grades of crude oil were well suited to Indian refineries and often came with favourable pricing and payment terms. Those flows halted in 2019, replaced first by Middle Eastern and American crude, and later by deeply discounted Russian barrels after the Ukraine war reshaped global trade. When Russian oil became available at a discount, Indian refiners moved in, ramping up imports with minimal disruption. Analysts now argue that a similar dynamic could play out if Iranian barrels re-enter the market. Kpler estimates suggest roughly 170 million barrels of Iranian crude are currently on water, including floating storage and cargoes in transit. "Oil on water" simply refers to crude that has been loaded onto ships and is moving- or waiting - at sea. This includes two categories: oil that is in transit to buyers, and oil held as floating storage. "Floating storage refers to oil held on ships that are currently stationary rather than being in transit," says Ying Cong Loh, senior market analyst at Kpler "These are vessels carrying oil, moving very slowly or barely at all, and lingering in the same area for days - typically identified by low speeds and recent tracking data may shows they are not actively on a delivery route." Not all of this oil is uncommitted, but a portion remains unsold - representing potential incremental supply if sanctions enforcement weakens or is selectively eased, according to Ritolia. In other words, there is a lot of Iranian oil already out there - barrels sitting on ships, either parked as floating storage or already being transported. Not all of this oil has buyers yet. Some is already sold, but a chunk is still unsold and available. "Indian refiners retain the ability to re-integrate these barrels with minimal operational adjustments, supported by prior processing experience and established trading setups," he says. India, the world's fourth-largest refiner, has been hit by disrupted oil and gas supplies - but unlike China, it has not moved to curb exports of refined fuels. Yet, the constraints are formidable. Any sustained return of Iranian oil hinges less on refining capability than on commerce and geopolitics, experts say. Sanctions do not just restrict sales; they complicate shipping, insurance and payments. "Key considerations include the scope and durability of sanctions relief (including on shipping), pricing structure and the availability of payment, insurance and logistics mechanisms," according to Ritolia. Unless these mechanisms are clarified or relaxed, transactions remain fraught. Bessent offered little detail on how such a waiver would be structured, or whether safeguards might be built in to prevent proceeds from flowing back to Tehran. The Treasury has declined to elaborate. Asked if he would back the idea, President Donald Trump was non-committal, saying only that "we will do whatever is necessary to keep the price" before trailing off. It's unclear if Bessent's proposal would gain traction in Washington, where the House of Representatives has just passed a bill to tighten sanctions on Iran's oil sector. The proposal follows other US moves to boost supply, including releasing millions of barrels from reserves and easing some sanctions on Russian oil last week. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Shipping disruptions from the US-Israel war with Iran have squeezed gas supplies to India, risking a temporary shift back to polluting fuels like coal, kerosene and biomass, experts say. There are reports that suggest some regions in India are witnessing a spike in timber sales, while others see increased sales of cow dung cakes - both biomass fuels. India has been dealing with a squeeze in cooking gas supplies over the past few days, leading to panic-buying by domestic users. The war that started on 28 February has halted ship movements through the Strait of Hormuz. About one-fifth of the world's oil and gas passes through the narrow waterway. The Gulf chokepoint handles about half of India's LNG imports and most of its LPG shipments. Foreign Minister S Jaishankar has said talks with Iran may ease disruptions in the Strait of Hormuz. Since Monday, three Indian-flagged vessels - two carrying LPG and one crude - have reached the western state of Gujarat, but about 21 ships remain stalled, keeping supply tight. As an immediate step, the federal government has approved an extra 48,000 kilolitres of kerosene for states, beyond the regular quota, to support low-income households through the public distribution system (PDS). "Kerosene is being made available through retail outlets and PDS channels," Petroleum Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said last week. India's environment ministry has told state pollution boards to let restaurants and hotels temporarily switch to biomass (wood, dried crops, animal manure), fuel pellets, kerosene and coal for a month, prioritising cooking gas for households and essential sectors. Government programmes have rapidly expanded LPG use for cooking in India, replacing kerosene and traditional biomass like firewood and dung. But with 60% of its LPG imported, India is now the world's second-largest importer after China. The shift is stark: kerosene output has fallen from 7.5 million tonnes in 2014–15 to under one million tonnes in 2023–24, government data shows. "We see it [people buying kerosene, coal and firewood] as a very temporary situation and when supply of LPG becomes better, consumers will immediately move back," said Nandikesh Sivalingam, director of Center for Research on Energy and Clean Air. He warned that a return to kerosene, coal and biomass -  linked to serious heart and lung disease - would quickly worsen indoor air pollution. Burning them releases carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxides and fine particles that penetrate the lungs and bloodstream. "Urban households may be more exposed to fuel shortages than rural areas, as they have fewer immediate fallback options," said Vibha Dhawan, director general at the Energy and Resources Institute in Delhi. In urban India, Sivalingam believes, a more likely scenario would be to move to electric cooking as a back-up rather than switching to biomass or other fuel. But it would increase demand for electricity - much of which in India is generated using coal. India already relies heavily on coal. It provided nearly 79% of India's domestic energy in 2023-24, according to government data. Such dependence means any short-term shift away from gas is likely to reinforce an energy system that is already built around coal, experts say. Madhura Joshi of climate think tank E3G said rural households may turn to biomass like firewood and subsidised kerosene, while some could shift to electricity, biogas or improved cookstoves where available and affordable. Dhawan further said technologies such as solar cooking systems - including solar cookers as well as solar photovoltaic systems connected to electric cooking devices - can reduce dependence on fossil fuels for household energy needs. She added that wider adoption of such technology could improve household energy resilience while supporting India's clean energy transition. However, such solutions take time to expand at scale. And, in the short term, experts say, coal remains the most readily available fallback. Follow BBC News India on Instagram, YouTube, X and Facebook. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
From soaring heating oil bills for homes in Yorkshire to bill-saving school closures in Pakistan, the financial fallout from the war in the Middle East is already being keenly felt. It is increasingly clear that the impact of Tehran's retaliation, designed to trigger economic disruption and damage, may not be fleeting. Moreover, it's very uneven. Alongside a hefty catalogue of those who risk being hard hit, there are some who are benefiting. So who are they? For all the efforts to pursue renewable energy, we remain hugely reliant on oil and gas. Plentiful reserves tend to promise great riches, hence crude has been labelled "black gold". When prices rise, producers are typically quids in, while users are out of pocket. But this is not your usual oil price shock. The Middle East remains the heart of supply, the Strait of Hormuz its main artery. The impact of a de facto blockage and attacks on energy infrastructure in the region has hit Gulf producers like Qatar and Saudi Arabia hard, as Tehran targets America's allies. As customers seek alternative sources, it's the likes of Norway and Canada who may gain. After Russia invaded Ukraine in 2022, and when many countries sought to move away from relying on Russian gas, Norway was able to ramp up production and take advantage. Meanwhile, Canada's Energy Minister Tim Hodgson has been quick to position his nation as "a stable, reliable, predictable, values-based producer of energy", but there are questions about how much it can raise production. Instead, it's Russia that could be the biggest winner. As Washington relaxes the rules to ease the global supply crunch, Russia's crude oil sales to India have jumped by 50%. Some estimates say that Moscow could earn up to $5bn (£3.7bn) more by the end of March, and could be on track for its biggest year of fuel-related revenues since 2022. America risks handing Moscow a hefty windfall at the expense of Gulf nations. There are other potential gainers too. As some countries ramp up their use of coal, it is a tantalising opportunity for big exporters such as Indonesia, as the price of that fuel also rises. What of the US itself? President Donald Trump says that when oil goes up, the US "makes a lot of money". Certainly, American oil producers could be on track to make tens of billions of dollars of extra revenues this year if crude prices remain around current levels. But that doesn't make the US a net winner. Firstly, because some producers are heavily exposed to disruption in the Middle East. ExxonMobil, for instance, has operations at Qatar's Ras Laffan industrial hub, where production has been shut down since early March, and which has now been hit by Iranian missile attacks, causing "extensive damage". Secondly, after years of cutting back capacity in the face of dwindling wholesale prices, many shale producers can't ramp up output quickly. And most important of all: on a per person basis, Americans are the biggest users of oil and gas on the planet. From cranking up the heat in the harsh Midwest winters, to fuelling the driving season, they are heavily exposed to the fluctuating price of fossil fuels. Economists at Oxford Economics warn that if oil prices were to surge to $140 - and stay there - the economy risks shrinking. Of course, Americans are not alone in that vulnerability. The reliance of European consumers - and those in the UK - to imported gas in particular means a greater  risk to growth. And that would happen via the hit to inflation: market developments over the last few weeks could add roughly 0.5% to inflation later in the year, if sustained, as price increases filter across to items such as fertiliser and shipping costs. The good news is that, in becoming more energy efficient over the years, the West in general is more resilient to energy price shocks than in the past. But with, for example, oil and gas making up more than half of energy consumption in the UK, drivers, household heating bills and those for energy-intensive sectors such as manufacturing remain exposed – which is true in many nations across the world. Much of the impact depends not just on the future direction of prices, but government responses, which is a heated topic. It is unsurprising that many authorities are hesitant to think about large-scale bailouts, for their finances too are under fire. The response of bond markets to the risk of higher inflation threatens to add billions to the costs of already-indebted countries. Naturally, though, the greatest immediate threat has been to the usual customers of the oil and liquid gas flowing east through the Strait of Hormuz. Asia gets 59% of its crude oil from the Middle East, South Korea, as much as 70%. As shares there have slumped over disruption and cost concerns, politicians have also warned of the risk to the country's chipmaking industry. South Korea makes more than half of the world's memory chips. Elsewhere, fuel rationing, four-day weeks and the closure of educational establishments are among the measures introduced by countries such as Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and the Philippines. But the biggest guzzlers in the continent have been somewhat insulated, through planning and diplomacy. China is sitting on reserves equal to a good few months of usage and has reportedly ramped up purchases from Iran. The same is true of India, as it also takes advantage of that temporary green light to turn to Russia. Exactly what comes to pass will of course depend on future developments in this conflict. But it is unlikely, as it strategised ahead of commencing the attacks on Iran, that the US fully foresaw some of these economic consequences. And if the war is protracted, the greater the risk of not just the damage to individual countries, but of contagion and global spillovers. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Just under 100 ships have passed through the Strait of Hormuz since the start of March, according to data analysed by BBC Verify, despite periodic attacks on shipping in the area by Iranian forces. While some energy and everyday goods are still moving through one of the world's busiest shipping lanes, daily traffic is down about 95% since the Iran war began on 28 February. Before the war, about 138 ships passed through the strait each day according to the Joint Maritime Information Centre, carrying one fifth of the global oil supply. The data provided by shipping analysts Kpler shows 99 vessels passing the narrow strait so far this month, an average of just 5-6 vessels a day. BBC Verify looks at the ships making the journey and the risks they are taking. Our analysis indicates that about a third of these recent crossings were made by ships with connections to Iran. These include 14 vessels sailing under Iran's flag and others under sanctions due to suspected links to Tehran's oil trade. Nine other ships were owned by companies with addresses linked to China, while six listed India as their destination. The analysis also reveals that several non-Iran linked ships have docked at the country's ports, including vessels owned by Greek companies. Some ships successfully crossing the strait appear to be taking a longer route than usual. Tracking data for a Pakistan-flagged oil tanker suggests it sailed close to the Iranian coast on its passage through the strait on 15 March, rather than the more widely used route through the middle. Bradley Martin, senior researcher at the US defence think tank RAND Corporation, told us the ship was likely "responding to some set of directions from Iran". He says its path could indicate the presence of mines, or an effort by Iranian officials to make the ship easier to identify. By forcing vessels to reroute, ships are entering Iran's territorial waters and Tehran's maritime rules, says Michelle Wiese Bockmann from Windward Maritime Analytics. "My takeaway is that Iran is closing and controlling the strait by the fear of attack and also the fear of mining. "That's why everyone is having to go around and hug its territorial coastline instead of going through that international navigation channel," she told BBC Verify. Michael Connell from the US-based Center for Naval Analyses agrees that ships are taking a different route. "They probably have some agreement in place with Iranian authorities that if they stick to a defined lane they're safe." Since the conflict began we have verified 20 commercial vessels attacked off the Iranian coast, not all of them in the direct vicinity of the Hormuz Strait. On 11 March, the Thai-flagged bulk carrier Mayuree Naree was struck by two projectiles while attempting to pass through. Three of the 23 crew members remain missing, believed to have been trapped in the engine room when the ship was hit. The ship's owners told BBC Verify the surviving crew were "traumatised at sea when they were hit by two explosions". Two other vessels - the Greek-owned Star Gwyneth and US-owned MT Safesea Vishnu - were also attacked the same day. "Commercial shipping lanes cannot become battle zones," MT Safesea Vishnu's owner told BBC Verify. One person died in the attack while the ship was anchored off Iraq. All 28 crew members were forced to jump into the water to escape the burning ship, Mr S V Anchan said. "These men and women are not soldiers… they are professionals who keep global trade moving." The mix of threats - drones, missiles, fast attack boats and potentially mines - presents a serious challenge, says Arun Dawson from the King's College Freeman Air and Space Institute. "A traditional minesweeper which is conducting slow, painstaking work is going to find it tricky to hunt for mines and deactivate them if they are also under air and surface attack," he said. Iran can also use geography of the strait to its advantage. Not only is the strait narrow and shallow, the coastline is also mountainous. This allows Iran to launch elevated attacks, which ships have less time to react to. In an attempt to evade detection, many ships appear to be deliberately switching off their tracking system - known as AIS (Automatic Identification System). "The vast majority of these [ships] have been crossing with their eyes off," says Dimitris Ampatzidis from Kpler. By turning off their trackers as they enter the Gulf of Oman, boats are disappearing from maps and then reappearing hours or days later in a different location. Although this helps ships conceal their position, it also presents challenges for firms like Kpler who are tracking movements in the strait. "Everything has been validated by our analysts through manual verification… and by using satellite imagery as well," Ampatzidis told BBC Verify. Additional reporting by Daniele Palumbo and Joshua Cheetham What claims do you want BBC Verify to investigate? The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Names of contributors have been changed for safety reasons. In the days before the Persian new year festival of Nowruz, Iranians would usually be excitedly preparing. "We'd be busy getting ready … cleaning the house, shopping for new clothes, sweets and snacks," says Mina, a woman in her 50s in Damavand, northeast of Tehran. But this year will be different, she says, in tears. "This year? Every day feels so long. It's like I've lost track of time," Mina says. Nowruz, which translates to "new day", is a traditional festival that marks the spring equinox, the rebirth of nature and the start of the new year in Iran and other countries. The festival dates back more than 3,000 years, making it one of the oldest in the world. It falls on 20 March this year, with the following day marking the start of the Iranian new year. But this year's Nowruz will be the first many in the country have experienced at war. Iran has been under bombardment from US and Israeli strikes since 28 February. The US-based group Human Rights Activists in Iran reports that 3,114 people have been killed in Iran, including 1,354 civilians, of which at least 207 were children. Tehran has responded by launching attacks on Israel and US-allied states in the Gulf. Mina's son, Amir, who has also moved from Tehran to Damavand with his family, says this Nowruz feels very different. "People are losing their jobs with the war. My biggest worry is our country's infrastructure," he says. "At this rate, there might not even be much left of Iran. I don't want this to be our last Nowruz." To Iranians, Nowruz represents their history, national character and tradition. Persians, Parsis, Kurds, Armenians, Azerbaijanis, Tajiks, Kazakhs, Uzbeks and other cultures celebrate the festival and have their own traditions surrounding it. The last time Iranians celebrated Nowruz during wartime was in the 1980s, during the eight-year conflict with Iraq. The festival comes with many traditions, including deep-cleaning the house beforehand to sweep away the old year's misfortunes and welcome a fresh start. "When the new year comes, I don't know whether the sound of the holiday announcement on TV will be mixed with the noise of missiles and drones… but I really hope not," Mina says. During the two-week Nowruz holidays, families usually visit each other's homes. But some do not want to go back to Tehran, which has seen the heaviest attacks. "Visits this year are very limited. We've been displaced ourselves, we left Tehran and came somewhere a bit safer," Mina says. "I wish everything could be wiped from our memories like we just woke up from a bad dream." Markets, shopping centres and streets across Iran are usually bustling with large crowds of shoppers in the final days before Nowruz. But this year, the buzz and excitement is not the same. "It used to be so much easier to find all the items for Nowruz before. Now, if you go anywhere, you're always worried whether you will be caught up in an air strike or not," says Parmis, a woman in her 20s who lives in Tehran. Parmis still went out to get her nails done on 17 March. Salons are usually busy around this time, as people prepare to look their best for Nowruz. "I feel like some are still carrying on despite everything, like me. I was in the salon when a loud explosion went off, and no-one even flinched," she says. Another woman, Maryam, says that some people are defiantly preparing for the festival and its centrepiece - the Haft Sin table. "There were people out buying things for Haft Sin. I saw flowers and some street vendors. But no, it's not like it was in previous years," she says. "At the same time, this is a tradition that happens once a year, and we must celebrate it. I bought some items and we had some at home. I'm planning to lay out Haft Sin tomorrow." Meanwhile, there are some inside the country who support the war continuing. "What's the point of Nowruz? If the Islamic Republic stays in power, we have to live with endless hardships. Nowruz is always there, comes and goes. This time, the Islamic Republic must go," says Ramtin, a man in his 30s in Tehran. Kian, also from Tehran, says his mum "says she'd even be willing for the house to collapse on her head if it meant the clerics would be gone. "I feel the same. Even if everything falls apart, I still think the Islamic Republic needs to go. We don't care about Nowruz, we don't even have Haft Sin on our table." Nowruz marks the point when the cold of winter begins to recede, giving way to the lively and hopeful arrival of spring. People make wishes, usually for health, happiness and a fresh start in the new year for themselves and their loved ones. Shirin, a woman in her 20s from Tehran, says the war coinciding with Nowruz "makes me feel even worse". "Some shops are open, but you can't smell Nowruz in the air." One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said Israel "acted alone" in attacking an Iranian gas field, as tensions mount over strikes on energy infrastructure across the region. Israel hit Iran's South Pars - part of the world's largest natural gas field - and Tehran retaliated by striking an energy complex in Qatar and attacking other energy targets in the Gulf. The attacks led to a spike in energy prices and US President Donald Trump later posted he had not known about them in advance. The fallout has raised questions over how united Israel and the US remain in their war aims. Speaking at a news conference on Thursday, the Israeli leader said Trump had requested that there be no further such attacks on energy targets. Earlier on Thursday Reuters news agency quoted three unnamed Israeli officials as saying that that attack on South Pars had been coordinated with the US in advance but that they were not surprised by Trump's reaction. Netanyahu also denied that his country had dragged the US into the war or "misled" Trump, saying that no one could tell the US leader what to do. The attacks on energy infrastructure marked an escalation in the war launched by the US and Israel against Iran, which had already responded by restricting shipping through the Strait of Hormuz. About a fifth of the 100m barrels of oil that the world consumes every day usually travels via the Strait of Hormuz, which runs along part of Iran's coast. Following the Iranian attack on Qatar's Ras Laffan industrial area, which includes the world's biggest liquefied natural gas (LNG) processing plant, QatarEnergy said about 17% of its export capacity would be affected. Qatar's prime minister, Mohammed bin Abdurrahman Al-Thani, warned the attack would have "significant repercussions for global energy supplies" and called it a "very dangerous escalation". Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said that Iran would show "zero restraint" if its infrastructure was struck again. Gas prices, which had already been rising since the start of the conflict, surged in response to the Iranian attack on Qatar. The UK benchmark peaked briefly at almost 183p per therm on Thursday before easing back to 154.8p, an 11.3% increase from Wednesday's level. European prices also rose by more than 10%. Meanwhile the US is weighing lifting sanctions on some Iranian oil, as it scrambles to contain the impact on energy markets. At his news conference, Netanyahu insisted that Israel was inflicting massive damage on Iran's military capacity and had attacked Iran's navy in the Caspian Sea. He said Israel was working to weaken the Iranian regime but said it was up to Iranians to act if they wanted to overthrow their government. "We can create the conditions, but they have to exploit those conditions at a certain point," he said. "If [the regime] survives it will be a lot weaker, shorn of industries it built over decades." Also on Thursday verified footage showed fire and smoke at an oil refinery in Haifa in northern Israel after a reported Iranian missile attack. Israel's energy minister Eli Cohen said damage to the country's electricity grid in the north was "localised and not significant". The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran has executed three men accused of killing police officers during anti-government protests in January, state media say, the first hangings to be carried out in relation to the demonstrations. Among the men was teenager Saleh Mohammadi, a member of Iran's national wrestling team, sources have told CBS, the BBC's US partner. The executions took place on Thursday morning local time in the northern Qom province after the Supreme Court upheld their death sentences,  Iran's Tasnim news agency reported. The nationwide protests, which began in December and escalated in January, were met with a violent crackdown by the Iranian authorities. Rights groups say thousands of people were killed. Tasnim, a semi-official news agency associated with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), reported that Mohammadi, Mehdi Ghasemi, and Saeed Davoudi were found guilty of killing two police officers in separate attacks in Qom. Tasnim said they were also convicted of "moharebeh" - waging war against God- one of the charges Iran uses to issue death sentences for protesters and opponents of the Islamic Republic. According to rights groups, the three men had confessed under torture and were executed without a fair trial. Their deaths came a day after Iran executed a dual Iranian-Swedish national. Kouroush Keyvani was hanged after being found guilty of spying for Israel, Iran's judiciary news agency Mizan Online said. Keyvani was reportedly arrested during Iran's 12-day war with Israel last June. "It is clear to us that the legal process that led to the execution of the Swedish citizen has not been legally secure," Sweden's foreign minister said in a statement. The protests, which reportedly spread to 180 cities and towns in all 31 provinces, were sparked by anger over the collapse of the Iranian currency and soaring cost of living. They quickly widened into demands for political change and became one of the most serious challenges to the clerical establishment since the 1979 Islamic revolution. While a near total shutdown of the internet and communication services made it difficult to find out what was happening in the country, protesters told the BBC the lethal crackdown by security forces was unlike anything they had witnessed before. According to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (Hrana), at least 7,000 people were killed in the January crackdown, including 6,488 protesters and 236 children. US President Donald Trump said in January that "strong action" would be taken against Iran if protesters were executed. Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said afterwards that there was "no plan" to hang people. One protester, Erfan Soltani, who had been arrested on 8 January and whose family had been told would be executed within days, according to the Norway-based Kurdish human rights group Hengaw, was later reportedly released on bail. Iran's judiciary denied he had been sentenced to death, saying he faced security-related charges carrying prison terms only. Since then, the US and Israel have launched wide-ranging strikes on Iran, killing the country's supreme leader. Iran has responded by launching attacks on Israel and US-allied states in the Gulf. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The White House is seeking $200bn (£150bn) more for the war in Iran, with President Donald Trump saying it is needed to replenish ammunition and other supplies depleted by the conflict and previous aid to other countries. "This is a very volatile world," Trump said on Thursday. "We want to have vast amounts of ammunition, which we have right now - we have a lot of ammunition, but it was taken down by giving so much to Ukraine." Asked about the extra billions needed for the war, US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth told reporters: "It takes money to kill bad guys." The Pentagon has told lawmakers the war cost the US $11.3bn in the first week alone. The conflict will enter its fourth week on Saturday. The funding request came as a US F-35 fighter jet had to make an emergency landing at a US air base on Thursday "after flying a combat mission over Iran", a spokesperson for the US Central Command said. The jet landed safely and the pilot is in stable condition, the spokesperson said. The F-35 was struck by suspected Iranian fire, US media reported, citing unnamed sources. The Pentagon estimates each such jet costs up to $77m. "This incident is under investigation," the Central Command spokesperson said. At a news conference on Thursday, Hegseth said the defence department needs more money for "what we may have to do in the future". The $200bn request is in addition to the department's annual budget of $838.7bn, which was approved by Congress in January. Congress has separately approved $188bn in funding for aid to Ukraine since the Russian invasion in February 2022. About $110bn had been spent as of last December, according to the special inspector general tracking the funding. Republican House Speaker Mike Johnson said on Thursday that he was sure the $200bn request for the Iran war was "not a random number". "Obviously it's a dangerous time in the world, and we have to adequately fund defence, and we have a commitment to do that," he said. The US-Israel war with Iran has had other economic impacts in the US. The associated spike in oil prices has raised economic uncertainty and threatened to drive up inflation. The US central bank, though, voted this week to hold interest rates steady. Raising them could have been an indication that bankers are worried about inflation and wanted to increase borrowing costs to stem spending and hence slow down price rises. The administration's war-funding request will set up a bruising legislative fight with Congress - which must approve funding - less than eight months from November's midterm congressional elections. While military funding tends to garner bipartisan support, polls suggest a majority of the US public does not approve of the war in Iran – and politicians will be pressed to justify the massive spending increase being requested. Some lawmakers suggested that Trump's decision to begin strikes without consulting Congress may make it difficult to win support to fund the attack now. Democratic congressman Jim Himes said Hegseth should "remember that old saying". "If you want me there for the landing, make sure I'm there at the takeoff." Democrats have criticised the size of the military spending request. They pointed out a one-year extension of health insurance subsidies that they unsuccessfully fought for last year would have cost about $35bn. The total savings from the Trump administration's Department of Government Efficiency, or Doge, cuts – which included massive reductions in US foreign aid – totalled $175bn. Last year, the US government spent $100bn on food aid for lower-income families. In the end, Republicans in Congress should have the votes to approve the extra funding, but it could come at a steep political price if the war, and the economic disruption that has come with it, drags on. Pentagon officials have said US action in Iran could last anywhere from four to six weeks. That leaves another one to three weeks to go. Trump's administration has been weighing whether to deploy thousands of US troops to the Middle East for the next steps in the conflict, Reuters reported, citing unnamed officials. In a statement to the BBC, the White House said there had been no decision to send ground troops "at this time". "[B]ut President Trump wisely keeps all options at his disposal," a spokesperson said. "The President is focused on achieving all of the defined objectives of Operation Epic Fury: destroy Iran's ballistic missile capacity, annihilate their navy, ensure their terrorist proxies cannot destabilize the region, and guarantee that Iran can never possess a nuclear weapon." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least three Palestinian women have been killed and eight more injured when a beauty salon in the Israeli-occupied West Bank was hit during an Iranian missile attack. The Israeli military told the BBC the women were killed "by a direct hit from a cluster munition missile". The Palestinian Red Crescent Society (PRCS) said there was a "direct impact of missile shrapnel". The incident happened in the town of Beit Awwa, near Hebron, on Wednesday night. The women are the first Palestinians killed in the West Bank as a result of the Iran war. At around the same time, a Thai worker was also killed from shrapnel which hit a farming community in Israel, Israeli medics said. The Israeli military had said it was working to intercept an Iranian missile attack shortly before the strikes. The salon was in a prefabricated metal structure close to a house. Locals said a bomb or part of a bomb landed yards away and ricocheted into the salon. A group of women were gathered on steps nearby, waiting to have their nails done ahead of the Eid al-Fitr holiday when explosion happened. The walls and door were raked with holes, while a large hole in the wall of the building showing where shrapnel blew out in the women's direction. Inside was a scene of destruction. The official Palestinian news agency Wafa said fragments from a missile or an intercept reportedly landed in several other locations in the West Bank. Iran has repeatedly fired missiles with cluster-bomb warheads at Israel. These are munitions which release large numbers of bomblets in mid-flight, scattering them over a wide area. Wafa identified those killed in the salon as Mais Ghazi Masalmeh, 17, Sahira Rizq Masalmeh, 50, and Amal Sobhi Abdel Karim Matawa' Masalmeh, 36. The PRCS said response teams, including at least five ambulances rushed to the scene and found "several casualties and injuries". The bodies of the three women were transported to a local hospital, along with other victims who sustained "critical and moderate" wounds, it said. The PRCS had previously reported that four women were killed in the incident before revising the death toll to three. It added that crews faced "significant difficulties" trying to reach the site due to  the closure of iron gates leading to the area, which "had a direct and critical impact on the time available to save the injured victims". In Israel, 30-year-old Thai worker Chaiwat Weaw-nil was killed in Moshav Adanim, about 12 miles (20km) north-east of Tel Aviv. Israel's Magen David Adom emergency service said "metal shrapnel was scattered across the scene" where Chaiwat was found dead. Additional reporting by Raffi Berg The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The bishop of Chelmsford reflects on her visit to a church in the West Bank. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has threatened to blow up a major gas field in Iran if it attacks the US's Gulf Arab ally Qatar again. Trump's threat came after a day in which Israel hit Iran's South Pars - part of the world's largest natural gas field. Tehran retaliated by striking an energy complex in Qatar, causing "extensive damage" and leading to a spike in energy prices. While Israel has not officially confirmed its attack on the gas field, the US president said the US "knew nothing" about its ally, which had  "violently lashed out" at Iran "out of anger for what has taken place in the Middle East". Conflict across the region continues after the US and Israel launched wide-ranging strikes on Iran on 28 February. Tehran has responded by launching attacks on Israel and US-allied states in the Gulf. Israel is also fighting Iran-backed Hezbollah in Lebanon, where more than a million people have been displaced. Oil prices leapt to nearly $110 (£83) a barrel after Israel's attack on the South Pars site, which is located offshore between Iran and Qatar. Following the Israeli attack, Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian warned of "consequences beyond control, the scope of which would engulf the entire world". Verified images of the strike showed smoke rising from at least two impacts. Iran retaliated by striking Qatar's Ras Laffan site on Wednesday and early on Thursday. Ras Laffan is an industrial area that contains the world's biggest liquefied natural gas (LNG) processing facility. Following the first attack, state-owned petroleum company, QatarEnergy, said "extensive damage" had been caused to the site, but all personnel were accounted for. After the site was hit for a second time, Qatar's interior ministry said all fires at the energy facility had been brought under control without any reported injuries. In his strongly-worded social media post early on Thursday, Trump said "Qatar was in no way, shape, or form, involved with" Israel's attack on the Iranian gas field, and Iran's retaliatory attacks on Qatar's Ras Laffan were made "unjustifiably and unfairly". If Iran did strike Qatar again, Trump threatened that the US would "massively blow up the entirety of the South Pars Gas Field at an amount of strength and power that Iran has never seen or witnessed before". He added that he did not want to authorise "this level of violence and destruction because of the long term implications" for Iran, "but if Qatar's LNG is again attacked, I will not hesitate to do so". Prior to Trump's statement, the Wall Street Journal had quoted unnamed US officials saying the president had supported the strike on South Pars as a message to Iran over its restriction of tanker traffic through the Strait of Hormuz - one of the world's busiest oil shipping lanes - but that he did not want to see further such strikes. Qatar's foreign ministry spokesman said "the Israeli targeting of facilities linked to Iran's South Pars field, an extension of Qatar's North Field" was a "dangerous and irresponsible step". The UAE and Oman also condemned the attack. The Qatari government later went on to describe the first Iranian attack on its Ras Laffan oil site as "brazen" and a "direct threat to its national security and the stability of the region". "The Iranian side continues its escalatory policies that are pushing the region toward the abyss and drawing in countries that are not parties to this crisis into the circle of conflict," the ministry said in a statement. It added that Qatar "reserves its right to respond". Two Iranian diplomats and their staff were ordered to leave Qatar within 24 hours. The attacks on the oil field have further destabilised energy markets. In early trading on Thursday, the price of gas was up more than 25% on wholesale markets in the UK and Europe, before easing back slightly. The price of gas in Europe is more than double the level seen before the conflict began. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Most factories in Morbi, India's ceramics hub in the western state of Gujarat, have shut down for nearly a month due to gas shortages triggered by the Iran war, according to the local manufacturers' association. Morbi produces about 80% of India's ceramics - mainly tiles and sanitaryware - and exports to the Middle East, Africa and Europe. Manufacturers say they halted operations on Tuesday after supplies of propane and natural gas - key fuels for ceramics production - were squeezed. India's ceramics industry is estimated to be worth about 750bn rupees ($8.1bn; £6bn), with Morbi at its core. The shutdown has hit around 400,000 workers linked to the sector. The US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February, triggering retaliation and disrupting shipping through the Strait of Hormuz - a key route for much of India's gas imports. Since Monday, three Indian-flagged ships -  two carrying liquefied petroleum gas and one crude oil - have reached Gujarat via the conflict-hit strait, but around 21 vessels remain stalled in the region. Foreign Minister S Jaishankar has said he hopes talks with Iran will ease the disruption. As an immediate measure, the government has directed that households and key sectors like healthcare and agriculture be prioritised for gas distribution. Ceramics manufacturing is energy-intensive, relying on propane and natural gas to fire kilns at high temperatures. "Roughly four out of 10 manufacturers use propane. The others use natural gas," Amit Prajapati, a manufacturer told the BBC. The manufacturers say they purchase propane from private companies, while piped natural gas is received from a state-run distributor. "About 550 factories have halted production, while a few using piped natural gas remain operational, depending on availability," Mukesh Kundariya, adviser to the Morbi ceramics manufacturers' association, told the BBC. Overall, around 80% of manufacturers in Morbi - especially larger units - have shut operations. The shutdown is set to be in place until 15 April, says Kundariya. "The fuel shortage worsened rapidly within days, leaving factories unable to maintain continuous kiln operations, which are required to avoid damage to equipment and unfinished products." Prajapati offers a clearer picture: "Factories that rely on propane have shut as supplies have dried up. Natural gas is still available, but most units using it have also stopped because prices have become volatile and unpredictable. That uncertainty has left manufacturers unsure how to price their products." Morbi's 3,000-odd ceramic sellers and distributors are relying on existing stocks, with fresh supplies cut off for at least a week. Traders warn that if the shutdown persists, domestic shortages could emerge, with inventories likely to start shrinking from April. "Export orders could also face delays, and prices may rise if output does not resume quickly - although the scale of any increase will depend on how long fuel supplies remain disrupted," Bhavin Dharodiya, a Morbi-based trader of tiles, told the BBC. Existing stockpiles may cushion the immediate impact, but shortages shall become more visible if the shutdown extends beyond the planned period, he adds. Morbi's ceramics industry employs about 400,000 people, many of them migrant workers from northern and eastern India, whose livelihoods have been hit by the shutdown. They work across factories and in allied sectors such as logistics, packaging and exports. Many of them are heading back home. "I will have to go hungry if I continue staying here without work," Sachin Parashar, a migrant worker, told a regional news channel. Some who have stayed back face uncertainty. "My employer has offered food and shelter, but I do not know what will happen if the shutdown continues indefinitely," says Bhumi Kumar, another migrant worker employed at a tiles factory. Follow BBC News India on Instagram, YouTube, Twitter and Facebook. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A film director who was smuggled out of Iran to the UK as a child to escape war has said it was important to hear the stories of refugees as war rages in his home country. Arash Sedighi arrived in north-west England in 1986, when he was four, after his parents fled the Iran-Iraq war, Sedighi said his pregnant mother, his father and he were smuggled out of the country with two suitcases of belongings to their name and he was plunged into an alien world in Manchester. His experiences form the plot of Holding on to Home, a short film which has already attracted positive responses at other film festivals, and is set to be screened at Manchester Film Festival. "Now we see the conflict in the Middle East and the war in Iran, there will be a lot more refugees," he told the BBC . "I think it's important right now to listen to more refugee stories and I think and I hope that people see something new in it - because it's about a child trying to fit in." Sedighi's character is played by Sam Abbasi. Speaking about his lead actor, he said: "He sort of has my semi-consciously sad look as well, as a child. Trying to fit in, self-conscious." The film was nominated for best British film at the 2025 Norwich Film Festival and was an official selection for the Spirit of Independence Film Festival. A thread running through the film is set of marbles Sedighi's father brought from Iran - his only possession from his childhood. In his introduction to the film, Sedighi wrote: "The next day, I went to school with my father's marbles and lost them in a game." Sedighi said: "I remember my childhood as a comfortable one, but looking back, I know it must have been a difficult transition for my parents. "My father worked as a cook in a nursery, as a taxi driver, and finally as a qualified social worker. My parents worked hard to make my younger brother and I feel like we belonged." Manchester Film Festival runs from 19 to 28 March at venues including HOME, Odeon Great Northern, Northern Light Cinema, Aviva Studios and Flix at the Treehouse Hotel Manchester. Listen to the best of BBC Radio Manchester on Sounds and follow BBC Manchester on Facebook, X, and Instagram. You can also send story ideas via Whatsapp to 0808 100 2230. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. Several rail services in north-western England have been disrupted due to damage caused by Storm Dave. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
China has long braced for a Gulf oil supply shock - but the Iran war's disruption of a key global shipping route is now putting its resilience to the test. Energy shipments from the Middle East have been at a standstill following Iran's threats to attack vessels that pass through a critical trade waterway as retaliation against US-Israeli strikes. The blockade has led to a global oil shortage which has rocked Gulf-reliant Asian countries hard - with the Philippines mandating four-day work weeks to save fuel, and Indonesia seeking ways to avoid burning through reserves that will last just weeks. China, the world's largest buyer of oil, is also feeling the strain. But the country sits in a better position than its neighbours, after years of statecraft that have prepared it for a global energy crisis. The world economy has been thrown into turbulence since the US and Israel launched strikes against Iran in late February. Since then, oil prices have at points soared to close to $120 (£90) a barrel - pushed up by strikes on shipping and energy infrastructure and the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz, the world's busiest oil shipping channel. About a fifth of the world's oil passes through the strait - around 20 million barrels each day, according to estimates from the US Energy Information Administration (EIA). The shortage has left countries scrambling for alternative crude suppliers outside of the Gulf, while others are tapping into their own oil reserves. As the world's second-largest consumer of oil after the US, China uses an estimated 15 to 16 million barrels of oil daily, various market analysts told the BBC. The oil is mainly used for China's massive transportation network of cars, trucks and jets. And much of it comes from abroad. Gulf countries are a major source of the oil China ships in, with barrels from Saudi Arabia and Iran accounting for more than 10% of its imports each, according to the US Energy Information Administration (EIA). Most of the country's imported crude oil, which comes from Iran and the Middle East through the South China Sea, is used as fuel to support factories and transportation, mainly in the southern half of China. The country's north, however, is mainly powered by oil produced domestically in major oilfields, along with pipeline imports from Russia - and these are not disrupted by the war in the Middle East. While many Asian countries have relied heavily on oil from Gulf nations, Russian oil accounts for nearly a fifth of China's energy imports. That makes Moscow by far Beijing's biggest oil supplier, despite sanctions from the US and Europe. Coal is also the dominant source of power for most of China's electricity, and is  available in abundance locally. China is the world's largest coal producer, accounting for more than half of global production. Oil and gas meanwhile account for just over a quarter of China's total energy mix, according to estimates published in state media - making the country less dependent on the resource than Europe and the US. Beijing has over the years taken advantage of lower crude prices and the abundance of supply from Gulf states to build one of the world's biggest oil reserves, says Ole Hansen, Saxo Bank's head of commodity strategy. In January and February of this year alone, Beijing bought 16% more crude compared to the same time period a year earlier, according to its customs administration. Iran, whose oil is sanctioned by the US, has been a key supplier of cheap crude for China, with reports suggesting that Beijing buys more than 80% of Iran's oil exports. Vessel-tracking data since the Iran war started indicates that some of this oil is still arriving in China - though analysts disagree on the exact size of China's oil stockpile. According to trade analytics group Kpler, more than 46 million barrels of Iranian crude oil - several days' worth of energy - currently sit in tankers along the South China Sea. Hansen says that estimates show China has built up reserves of around 900 million barrels - just under three months' worth of imports. Figures from Columbia University, cited by Chinese state media, said China had petrol reserves of some 1.4 billion barrels. It is also unclear how much daily imported energy China is using right away, and how much is being funnelled into its oil reserves, says Hansen. The sheer volume, he adds, still serves as a "substantial buffer" for times of disruption. Despite its reserves, Beijing has shown signs of caution to manage its supplies in the near future. Authorities in China reportedly ordered its oil refineries to stop exporting fuel for the time being, in an attempt to keep domestic prices under control. China's government did not respond to BBC queries on the matter. China has become a world leader in green energy, rapidly rolling out wind and solar farms across the country. Wind, nuclear, solar and hydropower generated more than a third of China's electricity in 2025, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. But the country has since expanded its renewables grid significantly, with estimates saying more than half the installed capacity is now from clean sources. As a result of its renewable push, crude oil only made up around a fifth of China's total energy consumption in 2024. And this demand for oil is unlikely to rise again in the future, according to the International Energy Agency (IEA). Energy economics researcher Roger Fouquet said China's "ambitious" transition to renewables is not merely an environmental move, but has also helped to protect its economy from global risks like those we're seeing with the Iran conflict. "To some extent, China is fortunate that 25 years ago it began its investment in renewable energy and it is now reaping the benefits," he said. Electric vehicles (EVs), which account for at least a third of new cars sold in China, have also helped the country's economy become less reliant on oil, said Roc Shi from the University of Technology Sydney. "It means an EV owner in Beijing simply doesn't feel the pain at the pump when the Middle East flares up," he said. "Their mobility costs are decoupled from international oil markets." That is not to say the Chinese economy is immune to oil supply shocks. For drivers of electric cars, charging prices can climb during an energy crisis if fuel prices rise. Last week, petrol and diesel prices rose by 695 yuan ($100; £75) and 670 yuan per tonne respectively, according to state news outlet China Daily citing an official report. For China's factories, rising oil prices can also drive costs in its massive petrochemical industry, which produces plastics, fertilisers and other chemicals. As the world's largest energy importer, every barrel of oil will now come with a higher price tag due to the war, said Shi - but China will have no choice but to pay that premium. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The top intelligence official in the US said on Wednesday that the Iranian regime was "intact" but "largely degraded". Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard and other top Trump administration officials testified at a congressional hearing for more than two hours about worldwide threats to the US. It was the first public briefing on intelligence since the war began in late February and came one day after a top counterterrorism leader resigned saying Iran had not posed an imminent threat to the US. Gabbard, who coordinates the country's intelligence operations, also said that the US had anticipated trouble in the Strait of Hormuz, a vital shipping channel. "The IC [intelligence community] assesses the regime in Iran appears to be intact, but largely degraded due to attacks on its leadership and military capabilities," she said. Appearing alongside the heads of the CIA, FBI, National Security Agency and Defense Intelligence Agency, Gabbard declined to answer when asked repeatedly by Senator Jon Ossoff, a Democrat, about whether she had viewed Iran as an imminent threat. "The only person who can determine what is and is not an imminent threat is the president," she said. Since the war began, lawmakers and commentators from both parties have questioned why the US struck the Islamic Republic and if the Trump administration was aware of potential problems in the Strait of Hormuz on the southern coast of Iran.  President Donald Trump has said the US attacked largely because Iran was developing nuclear weapons, which threatened the US and Israel. On Tuesday, Joe Kent resigned from his role as director of the national counterterrorism center, saying in a publicly posted resignation letter that Iran had posed "no imminent threat" to the US and criticising Trump for the war. CIA Director John Ratcliffe testified on Wednesday that he did not agree with Kent. "I think Iran has been a constant threat to the United States for an extended period of time, and posed an immediate threat at this time," he said. Gabbard said US and Israeli strikes in the Middle East had "largely destroyed" Iran's military capabilities. She also said the intelligence community had assessed that "Iran was trying to recover from the severe damage to its nuclear infrastructure sustained during the 12-Day War and continued to refuse to comply with its nuclear obligations". The US and Israel attacked Iran over 12 days in June 2025 with the aim of destroying possible capabilities to produce a nuclear bomb. In written remarks prepared for the hearing, Gabbard had asserted those attacks "obliterated" Iran's nuclear enrichment programme, and Iran had made "no efforts" to rebuild it. But she did not read that assertion aloud. When Democratic Senator Mark Warner asked Gabbard about the omission, she said she had to trim her public remarks because they were "running long". "So you chose to omit the parts that contradict the president," Warner responded, pointing Trump's contention that military action against Iran was justified because of its nuclear-weapon development. Lawmakers also asked how involved intelligence officials were in Trump's decision to strike Iran. Senator Angus King, an Independent from Maine, asked if they were "in the room" with Trump as he made his "final decision". Ratcliffe estimated he was in "dozens and dozens" of meetings with the president, but did not know if there was a "single time where a decision was made". King also asked if intelligence officials had informed Trump that Iran could potentially attack the Strait of Hormuz during a conflict with the US. Iran has effectively shut down the vital oil shipping channel since the US-Israel war with Iran began. "The president gets briefings constantly about intelligence," Ratcliffe said. He added that the Pentagon prepared for Iran to hit "US interests in energy sites across the region" and "took measures for force protection". The intelligence community had a "longstanding assessment" that Iran "would likely hold the Strait of Hormuz," Gabbard noted. She said the US defence department took "pre-emptive planning measures" as a result of that report. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two Iranian men have been charged with an offence under the National Security Act after an investigation into alleged reconnaissance of Jewish targets on behalf of Iran. Nematollah Shahsavani, 40, and Alireza Farasati, 22, were arrested earlier this month on suspicion of assisting a foreign intelligence service. The investigation is linked to Iran, officials said. Counter Terrorism Policing had been investigating alleged surveillance of locations and individuals linked to London's Jewish community. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Vicki Evans described the charges as "extremely serious" and said the force will be "relentless" in its pursuit of anyone threatening the safety of the public. "We fully recognise that the public - and in particular the Jewish community - will be concerned but I hope this investigation reassures them that we will not hesitate to take action if we identify there may be a threat to their safety, and will be relentless in our pursuit of those who may be responsible," she added. Shahsavani, a dual British-Iranian national of North Finchley, and Farasati, an Iranian national of Edgware, were both charged with engaging in contact that is likely to assist the Iranian intelligence service between 9 July 2025 and 15 August 2025. The Crown Prosecution Service said the charges under the National Security Act related to activities that included "reconnaissance of targets." They are due to appear at Westminster Magistrates' Court on Thursday. Two other men who were arrested at the same time as part of the investigation have been released without charge. The number registered rises to 211 in 2025, up from 202 the previous year. Thinus Keeve's comments come days after an M&S store was targeted during disorder in south London. Fouad Boudra was extradited from France after the deaths of two people in Walthamstow in 2024. Visitors to Norway during Easter might find the streets emptier than usual, thanks to the nation's cherished Eastertime obsession: retreating to isolated cabins to binge crime fiction. Everard, 33, was raped and killed by serving Metropolitan Police officer Wayne Couzens in London in 2021. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran's intelligence minister Esmail Khatib has been killed, the country's president has confirmed. Masoud Pezeshkian said the "cowardly assassination" had left Iran "in deep mourning", after Israel said on Wednesday it had killed Khatib in an air strike. It comes a day after Israel announced it had killed Iran's top security official, Ali Larijani, and head of the paramilitary Basij force, Gholamreza Soleimani, in strikes. Since the assassination of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on the first day of the war on 28 February, multiple senior Iranian officials and commanders have been killed in efforts by Israel and the US to weaken the regime's leadership. In a post on X, Pezeshkian extended his condolences to the Iranian people over the officials' deaths, adding he was "certain their path will continue more steadfastly than before". Speaking to the BBC, a woman from Tehran said the "killing of Khatib might help the people since he was among the leadership". "It might be that when people come out after a call to protest, the likelihood of them being killed is lower now," she said. "Even though they all have replacements, these were the main figures." Earlier on Wednesday, Israel's defence minister Israel Katz announced that Khatib had been "eliminated" in an Israeli strike on Tehran. "Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and I have authorised the IDF to eliminate any senior Iranian official for whom the intelligence and operational circle has been closed, without the need for additional approval," he said. In a statement, the Israel Defence Forces (IDF) said Iran's Ministry of Intelligence had been instrumental in supporting the regime's "repression and terrorist activities" and Khatib had played a "significant role" in the "arrest and killing of protesters" during the crackdown on recent protests in Iran. Khatib was appointed as Iran's defence minister by the late former president, Ebrahim Raisi, in 2021. He studied Islamic jurisprudence under several high-ranking clerics, including  Khamenei, and held various senior posts in the ministry of intelligence and Office of the Supreme Leader. He was sanctioned by the US Treasury for his role as head of Iran's Ministry of Intelligence for "engaging in cyber-enabled activities against the United States and its allies" in 2022. Large crowds gathered in central Tehran on Wednesday for the funerals of Larijani, Soleimani, and the 84 sailors killed when the US sank an Iranian warship off the coast of Sri Lanka earlier this month. More than 1,300 people have been killed in Israeli and US strikes on Iran since the start of the war, including 226 women and 204 children, according to the Iranian government. The US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (Hrana) puts the death toll higher - reporting on Tuesday that at least 1354 civilians and 1138 military personnel have been killed since the war began, as well 622 others who it could not classify. Iran has retaliated with strikes across the Middle East. On Wednesday, two people were killed in a strike on Israel, and blasts and drone interceptions were reported in Dubai, Qatar, Kuwait, Iraq, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia. The reverberations of the war have been felt across the world with oil prices surging following the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz, a vital waterway for energy shipments. Additional reporting by Ghoncheh Habibiazad The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
It was late at night when an Iranian cluster bomb flew through the ceiling of an elderly couple's apartment in central Israel and exploded in their tiny living room, killing them both. The path of the bomb was still clearly mapped onto the ash-covered debris left behind. A large hole in the ceiling of their top-floor apartment marked where it punched through, forcing broken concrete and metal rods inwards. Shrapnel holes across the back walls showed the force of the explosion, which destroyed the front of the apartment - leaving it open to the street outside. Inside, a walking frame lay upended on the floor under the ash-covered furniture and rubble. "We heard three noisy interceptions, but on the fourth one, we knew it was our house," said Sigal Amir, who lives next door and was sheltering in her safe room when the explosion hit. "There was a massive boom and I felt a pain in my ear from the blast," she said. "The neighbours live five metres from us – their door was blown off and their house was full of dust like snow." She said the couple had not been in the shelter when the bomb hit as one of them had mobility issues. Deaths from Iran's daily missile attacks have been rare in Israel, with air defences intercepting most of them. But cluster bombs disperse over a wide area and are much harder to defend against, even when the missile carrying them is shot down. As the war has gone on, Iran has shifted to using more of them. "You can see the entry point of the rocket that flew all the way from Iran in a huge missile, and broke into dozens of pieces," said Israeli military spokesman Lt Col Nadav Shoshani during a visit to the site. "We had dozens of impact points like this in central Israel." He said that while Israel had intercepted the missiles carrying cluster bombs, each carried 20 to 80 munitions, which were "very difficult to stop". While we were there, another alarm sounded, warning of incoming missiles. The neighbour, Sigal, beckoned us into her safe room. There have been relatively few casualties from Iranian missiles in Israel. Fourteen people have so far been killed directly by strikes, nine of them in one attack in Bet Shemesh in the early days of the war. The joint US-Israel campaign against Iran, now in its 19th day, has destroyed military sites, oil facilities and other infrastructure across the country, with the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (Hrana) reporting on Tuesday that at least 1354 civilians and 1138 military personnel have been killed since the war began. Israel's military says it has destroyed more than 70% of Iran's ballistic missile launchers, and that Iran's attacks against Israel are now weakening. Meanwhile, Israel's population is resilient, and support for the war still appears to be strong. But the regular alarms, which send Israelis into shelters night and day, and the increasing use of cluster munitions, has left some in this war-weary population starting to ask when and how it will end. "To be honest, in the last days I'm losing hope a little bit," said Sigal as we sheltered in the safe room. "I feel there's no end to it, there's no direction, we can't see the light at the end of the tunnel. We must endure this, but I'm not sure how long it will take, [or] where we are going from here." This war was framed by Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as the culmination of a long battle against Israel's enemies in the region. He has basked in his country's military superiority, saying the current conflict has already changed the Middle East, and that Israel is now a regional power and, in some respects, a global one. But this is an asymmetric war, and Iran is pressing on US sensitives around oil prices, casualties and the vulnerability of its Gulf allies, to force an end to hostilities. Israel's potential timeline for this conflict is thought to be longer than Washington's. It is also fighting on a second front, against the Lebanese group Hezbollah - a well-armed Iranian proxy on Israel's northern border - which joined the war after the assassination of Iran's former Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamanei. Hundreds of thousands of Lebanese have been displaced, and 912 killed in Israeli operations, according to Lebanon's health ministry. This week, Israeli ground forces expanded operations in southern Lebanon, after ordering vast areas of the country to evacuate. But the US is already reported to be exploring a deal with the Lebanese government to calm the situation. Netanyahu sees this moment as a golden opportunity to strike real blows against Iran's regional network, fighting "shoulder to shoulder" with the US. He's promised the war will deliver lasting change. But the pressures on his superpower ally are growing, and each fatal missile strike makes it harder to declare victory at home. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
There are not expected to be significant increases in electricity bills in the wake of the Iran war due to existing purchasing arrangements, the Isle of Man's chief minister has said. Alfred Cannan said government-owned Manx Utilities was "well hedged" for the next year due to purchasing made at a "settled price". Cannan said the situation with gas supply on the island was "very different" to that which arose at the start of the war in Ukraine, which saw the government heavily subsidise electricity prices as the wholesale price soared. However, he warned the "biggest impact" in the short term would be on oil and fuels. Island fuel provider Manx Petroleum this week warned its customers that it was "unable to provide indicative prices for any new orders" due to volatility in global prices. It said while the island had so far been insulated from the increases seen in the UK, unless the situation stabilised soon, "our next shipment of fuels is likely to arrive at a significantly higher cost than the last". Cannan told Tynwald meetings of the National Economic Strategy Board would now be held weekly rather than monthly to monitor the "rapidly" evolving situation and ensure any potential economic, social and security impacts were considered in a coordinated way. The chief minister said as well as Manx Utilities, it was also in contact with the Islands Energy Group – the parent group of the island's privately-owned monopoly gas provider, Isle of Man Energy – to see whether there would be any cost variables coming forward. "We also understand that they have made quite significant forward purchases to lock in the price of gas at the pre-war pricing," he said. Cannan told Tynwald while it was "too early for me to give firm direction" on whether support would be needed this time round, it was "clear already that our concern will be for the most vulnerable in our society". There were "mechanisms through the winter fuel payments to identify where any support may need to be directed", he explained. However, Cannan said – given the current uncertainties - the government should "not be forced into any short-term decisions or knee-jerk reactions until we can actually see a clearer picture in as much as that is possible". The government would "continue to act calmly, prudently, and in the best interests of the people of the Isle of Man", he added. Read more stories from the Isle of Man on the BBC, watch BBC North West Tonight on BBC iPlayer and follow BBC Isle of Man on Facebook and X. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Five members of Iran's national women's football team who dropped their bids for Australian asylum have returned to the country with the rest of the squad. The team were pictured in their tracksuits as they crossed into Iran from Turkey on Wednesday afternoon, having flown back via Malaysia and Oman. A number of the players had initially sought humanitarian visas to stay in Australia after concerns they would face repercussions for staying silent during Iran's national anthem at their opening Asian Cup match. Human rights activists have said they may have been pressured to reverse their decisions through threats against their families. The team had landed in Igdir in eastern Turkey around noon local time (15:00 GMT) on Tuesday. Turkish media reported that after clearing customs and passport control in the evening, they left the airport for a hotel under police escort. Three of the players who dropped their bids have previously been named by activists in the Iranian diaspora as Zahra Soltan Meshkehkar, Mona Hamoudi and Zahra Sarbali. Iran's state media reported captain Zahra Ghanbari was also among those who changed their minds, while the fifth player has not yet been named. Just two others who were granted sanctuary have stayed behind as defectors. Concerns grew about the team's safety after footage emerged of a host on state TV calling them "traitors" who ought to be punished for their silence during the anthem on 2 March, days after the US and Israel began their war against Iran. The players went on to sing the anthem at their next two matches before being eliminated - leading critics to believe they had been told to sing by government officials accompanying them during the tournament. Australia's Home Affairs Minister Tony Burke later confirmed five players who "wanted to be able to stay in Australia" had been escorted to a safe location by police, from the Gold Coast hotel where they had been staying. Burke said he met the women at the safe location and signed off for their applications for humanitarian visas at about 01:30 local time - which would have given them leave to live, work and study in the country. The BBC witnessed some of their minders running across the hotel to try to find them – but they had already gone. Two more women later joined the group. But after some started to change their minds, Burke said the Australian government could not "remove the context in which the players are making these incredibly difficult decisions". Iran's sports ministry said at the time that they had "defeated the enemy's plans" against them through their "national spirit and patriotism", and accused Australia's government of "playing in Trump's field". IRGC-affiliated news agency Tasnim meanwhile reported the players had faced  "psychological warfare, extensive propaganda and seductive offers" in Australia. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Iran war has already rattled India's liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) market. Now another energy artery is under scrutiny: the country's rapidly expanding network of piped natural gas (PNG) - gas delivered by pipeline to homes and businesses. Demand for this natural gas comes from fertiliser plants, industry and gas-fired power, as well as city gas networks - which supply PNG to households and CNG (compressed natural gas) to vehicles. Of these, city gas to homes is the standout grower, expanding steadily as the network spreads across urban India. That push is mirrored on the ground: India now has more than 15 million PNG connections, a number rising fast as policymakers nudge households to swap cylinders for gas on tap. At the same time, demand from CNG vehicles has also climbed steadily, with CNG now India's second-largest auto fuel after petrol. If tankers carrying LPG struggle to pass through the Strait of Hormuz, the question in many urban Indian homes is simple - could the gas in their kitchen pipelines be next to feel the squeeze? Probably not - at least not immediately. India's piped gas supply is a blend of domestic production and imports of liquefied natural gas (LNG). About half of India's PNG supply is domestic gas drilled from onshore and offshore fields - for example by companies such as ONGC and Reliance. The balance is met through LNG imports. "No disruption is expected for homes and vehicles [using piped gas]. The government has given priority to these two sectors," says Rahul Chopra, managing director for the Haryana City Gas Distribution Limited, a countrywide gas company with around 100,000 domestic consumers and 195 CNG fuel stations. However, about 2,200 of Chopra's industrial and commercial customers are facing a government-mandated 20% supply cut, as gas is diverted to households and vehicles. In a supply squeeze, the government tends to protect priority sectors - especially fertiliser plants and households connected to piped gas. That means the first casualties are usually industry and power generators. When LNG prices spike or cargoes tighten, factories often switch fuels - to fuel oil, LPG or even coal. Gas-fired power plants simply cut generation. Despite the domestic cushion, India's piped gas system, like its LPG market, is also exposed to global shocks. In recent years LNG has supplied roughly half of the country's total gas availability. Imports totalled around 24-25 million tonnes in 2025, making India one of the world's largest LNG buyers. And a big chunk of that comes from one place: Qatar. More than half of India's LNG imports are tied up in long-term contracts with Qatari suppliers. Smaller volumes arrive from the US, Australia, Russia and parts of Africa. LNG cargoes from Qatar and the UAE must pass through the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow maritime choke-point now at the centre of the Middle East war after the US and Israel launched attacks on Iran. Roughly 50-55% of India's LNG imports move through this corridor. So far, the flow has not stopped entirely. Tankers loaded before the conflict escalated are still sailing. "Supplies have not been completely disrupted yet. Cargoes that loaded in Qatar before the conflict escalated are still arriving in Asia," says Go Katayama, principal insight analyst for LNG and natural gas at Kpler Insight, a commodity intelligence platform. Shipping data from Kpler show 13 LNG cargoes loaded between 10-26 February are currently en route to India, with deliveries continuing through March. But exports from Qatar's giant Ras Laffan LNG complex (77 million tonnes a year) have been halted since 2 March, meaning these vessels could be among the last shipments until safe passage through Hormuz resumes, according to Katayama. That does not mean India will run out of gas overnight. But it highlights a structural vulnerability. Unlike crude oil, India does not maintain strategic reserves of LNG. Gas is stored mainly as working inventory at regasification terminals - facilities such as Dahej, Hazira, Kochi and Ennore in India - that convert imported LNG back into gas. At most, they cover about one to two weeks of imports, depending on terminal operations and cargo schedules, says Katayama. The system works because ships normally arrive in a steady rhythm. Interrupt that rhythm, and the market must adjust quickly. For India's urban consumers using piped gas, the immediate risk is price rather than shortage. If disruption at Hormuz persists, India's gas market will adjust the usual way: through higher prices and weaker industrial demand. Households may keep their kitchen taps running - but not cheaply. "There is some price rise expected," says Chopra. In the end, both homes and factories will pay more; industry will simply bear the deeper cuts. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Israeli air strike which killed Iran's security chief, Ali Larijani, has removed one of the Islamic Republic's most experienced and influential policymakers at a critical moment. Larijani was not a military commander, but he was a central figure in shaping Iran's strategic decisions. As secretary of the Supreme National Security Council, he sat at the heart of decision-making on war, diplomacy, and national security. His voice carried weight across the system, particularly in managing Iran's confrontation with the United States and Israel. After the killing of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei on 28 February, Larijani struck a defiant tone, signalling that Iran was prepared for a long conflict. His death, now confirmed by state media, comes amid a broader campaign in which several senior Iranian officials and commanders have been killed within a matter of weeks. This pattern suggests a sustained effort to weaken Iran's leadership structure during wartime. Despite his hardline stance against the West, Larijani was often described inside Iran as a pragmatist. He combined ideological loyalty with a technocratic approach, favouring calculated strategy over rhetoric. He remained deeply sceptical of engagement with Western powers, but he was also involved in key diplomatic efforts, including acting as an envoy in Iran's long-term co-operation agreement with China. At the time of his death, Larijani was in charge of managing three major crises. The first was the war itself. He argued that Iran should prepare for a prolonged struggle and expand the conflict across the region and beyond, including closure of the Strait of Hormuz. The second was a wave of domestic unrest, which began with economic grievances but quickly turned into wider protests seeking to topple the Islamic Republic. These were met with a crackdown that killed many thousands of protesters across the country. The third was Iran's nuclear programme and stalled indirect negotiations with Washington, both of which had already been disrupted by military strikes. His removal leaves these issues unresolved and transfers them to an as-yet-unknown successor facing an extremely fragile situation. While Iran has shown resilience, partly by disrupting global energy markets, its airspace remains open to continued strikes. Any new senior figure will face immediate risk of being targeted. This may shift power further towards the military. Recent remarks by President Masoud Pezeshkian suggest that armed forces units have effectively been given broad authority to act if senior leadership is incapacitated. In practice, that could mean decisions being taken more quickly, but with less central co-ordination. There are also signs that the leadership is struggling to manage succession. Iran has delayed public announcements and kept some figures, including the new supreme leader Mojtaba Khamenei, largely out of sight. Whether this is for security reasons or due to internal uncertainty is unclear. In the short term, the likely outcome is a more volatile situation: a harder military posture in the war and harsher repression at home. Iranian army chief Amir Hatami has also threatened to launch a "decisive" retaliation for Larijani's death. Over time, however, a system that continues to lose senior figures may find it increasingly difficult to function effectively, especially in a country of more than 90 million people. The impact of Larijani's death, then, is not just about the loss of a single official. It deepens a leadership crisis that could affect both the course of the war and the stability of the Iranian state itself. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump's top counterterrorism official has resigned over the war in Iran, urging the president to "reverse course". In a letter posted on X, National Counterterrorism Center Director Joe Kent said that Iran posed "no imminent threat" to the US and claimed the administration "started this war due to pressure from Israel and its powerful American lobby". The White House dismissed the letter, saying the president had "compelling evidence" that Iran was going to attack the US first. A US hate monitor accused Kent of "antisemitic tropes". With his departure, Kent is the most high-profile figure within the Trump administration to publicly criticise the US-Israeli attack on Iran. In the Oval Office on Tuesday, Trump said Kent was a "nice guy", but "weak on security". He also said Kent's resignation letter had made him realise "it was a good thing that he's out". In the letter addressed to Trump, Kent alleged that "high-ranking Israeli officials" and influential US journalists had sown "misinformation" that led the president to undermine his "America First" platform. "This echo chamber was used to deceive you into believing that Iran posed an imminent threat to the United States," the letter continued. "This was a lie." Kent, a long-time Trump supporter who unsuccessfully ran for Congress twice, was nominated by the president early in his administration and narrowly confirmed to his post. In his confirmation hearings, Kent refused to renounce claims that federal agents had fomented the January 2021 riot at the US Capitol, or that Trump had not been defeated in the 2020 election. Democrats had criticised his hiring of a member of the far-right Proud Boys as a consultant to his 2022 election bid. The Anti-Defamation League (ADL), a US antisemitism monitor, said in a statement that accusations in Kent's resignation letter "traffic in old-age antisemitic tropes". "So it's no surprise that he would blame Israel and the media for pushing the President into war against the Iranian regime," the ADL said. The pro-Israel lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (Aipac), reposted the ADL statement on X. Aipac did not immediately respond to a BBC request for comment. Ilan Goldenberg, a senior official at the liberal pro-Israel advocacy group J Street, described Kent's letter as "ugly stuff that plays on the worst antisemitic tropes". Kent, 45, is a US special forces and CIA veteran whose wife, navy cryptologic technician Shannon Kent, was killed in a suicide bombing in Syria in 2019. The father-of-two deployed 11 times overseas with the US military, including with the US Army's special forces in Iraq. He later became a paramilitary officer at the CIA, before leaving government service following his wife's death. Kent cited his military service and his wife's death in his letter, saying that he "cannot support sending the next generation off to fight and die in a war that serves no benefit to the American people nor justifies the cost of American lives". At the National Counterterrorism Center, Kent reported to Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard and oversaw the analysis and detection of potential terrorist threats from around the globe. Following Kent's resignation on Tuesday, Gabbard backed Trump's decision to go to war with Iran. In a statement posted on X, she said that as commander-in-chief, the president was responsible for determining what is and is not an imminent threat. She noted that the Office of the Director of National Intelligence was responsible for helping to provide the president "with the best information available to inform his decisions". "After carefully reviewing all the information before him, President Trump concluded that the terrorist Islamist regime in Iran posed an imminent threat and he took action based on that conclusion," Gabbard wrote on X. White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said Kent's suggestion that "Trump made the decision based on the influence of others, even foreign countries, is both insulting and laughable". "As President Trump has clearly and explicitly stated, he had strong and compelling evidence that Iran was going to attack the United States first," she added. The political reaction was mixed. Mitch McConnell, the former top Republican in the Senate, posted on X: "Isolationists and anti-Semites have no place in either party, and certainly do not deserve places of trust in our government." But ex-Georgia congresswoman Marjorie Taylor Greene - a onetime Trump backer - came out in support of Kent, calling him an American hero. She posted on X: "They are going to lie about Joe Kent and try to discredit him. Do not believe the lies!" There have been a number of resignations among senior officials in the Trump administration, including Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement director Margaret Ryan and Kennedy Center head Richard Grenell. President Trump's second term, however, has seen far less turnover than his previous tenure at the White House between 2017-21. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Donald Trump has accused Nato members of making a "foolish mistake" by refusing to help the US secure the Strait of Hormuz during the war with Iran. Despite the pressure on oil prices brought about by severe disruption to the critical waterway amid the conflict, he insisted the US does not need help from its allies. Speaking alongside Irish Prime Minister Micheál Martin at the White House, Trump said he has been informed by most Nato allies that they do not want to get involved in the war, a conflict many of them view as illegal. While Trump has said some countries are willing to help escort ships through the strait, he has yet to publicly identify them. In heated remarks in the Oval Office on Tuesday, Trump insisted that "we don't need any help" from Nato. "But they should've been there," he added. The US president said the reluctance to send mine-sweeping vessels to the Gulf was "not a big deal", but was "unfair" to the US. He reserved his harshest criticism for the UK, citing its lack of participation and assistance in the US-Israeli strikes on Iran. Trump said the US-UK relationship was "always the best" until "[Prime Minister] Keir [Starmer] came along". He also said the war was a "great test" of the alliance's relations with the US. But when asked if he was considering any retaliatory measures, the president said only that he had "nothing currently in mind". Trump also complained that Nato allies had benefited from tens of billions of dollars in US backing for Ukraine to fend off Russia's invasion. "We will protect them, but they will do nothing for us, in particular, in a time of need," the president said on social media. Only a handful of vessels carrying Iranian oil to countries including India and China have managed to pass through the Strait of Hormuz since hostilities began on 28 February. Several commercial cargo ships have been struck in the waterway, through which about one-fifth of the world's oil passes. US officials have still not identified allies willing to help escort ships through the passage. Many, including the UK, Germany and France - have said they are not ready to make a decision yet. President Emmanuel Macron said on Tuesday that France did not want to get involved. "We are not a party to the conflict, and therefore France will never take part in operations to reopen or liberate the Strait of Hormuz," Macron said. Kaja Kallas, the European Union's top diplomat, said on Tuesday: "This is not Europe's war. We didn't start the war. We were not consulted." "The member states do not have the wish to be dragged into this," Kallas said, according to AP news agency. On Tuesday, the director of the US National Counterterrorism Center, Joe Kent, resigned over the war in Iran, urging Trump to "reverse course". In a letter, Kent argued that Iran posed no imminent threat to the US, despite the administration's repeated claims to the contrary. Kent's boss, Director of National Intelligence Tulsi Gabbard, defended the president in a social media post. She said Trump had carefully reviewed the intelligence and concluded that Tehran did pose an imminent threat. Meanwhile, retaliatory strikes launched by Iran and its allied militias continued. Israeli officials said two people had been killed near Tel Aviv by an Iranian ballistic missile, while sites in the United Arab Emirates, Iraq, Qatar and Kuwait were also targeted. In his first policy meeting since his appointment as Iran's new supreme leader, Mojtaba Khamenei said there were no ceasefire plans, a senior Iranian official told Reuters news agency. Khamenei said it was not "the right time for peace until the United States and Israel are brought to their knees, accept defeat, and pay compensation", the official said. It was unclear whether Khamenei could have attended the meeting in person or remotely. He has not been seen in public since he was reportedly injured in last month's air strikes that killed his father, Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei. On Tuesday, Iran officials also acknowledged the deaths of security chief Ali Larijani and Basij militia head Gholamreza Soleimani. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A woman stands on a rooftop listening to the sounds of the city below. There is only the dull hum of traffic tonight. But she knows how easily that can change. It is usually the dogs who notice the sound first and begin to bark furiously. The noise of aircraft. Then the ominous percussion of explosions. A ball of orange rising from an airstrike in a familiar neighbourhood. The BBC has obtained footage and interviews from Tehran which evoke a city of strained nerves, of constant waiting for the next blast and relentless fear of the state security apparatus. Baran – not her real name – is a businesswoman in her thirties. She is now too scared to go to work. "With the start of the drone attacks, no one dares to go outside. If I open my door and step out, it is like gambling with my life." She lives alone but is in constant communication with her friends. "My friends and I message each other constantly asking where everyone is…and even when there is no sound the silence itself is terrifying. I am doing everything I can to stay alive and witness whatever lies ahead." Like so many young Iranians, Baran saw her hopes of change devastated in recent months. Thousands of people were killed in a crackdown by regime forces in January after widespread demonstrations demanding change. "I cannot even remember how I used to live in the past without being reminded of the loved one I lost during the protests," she says. "I fear tomorrow. I fear the person I will be tomorrow. Today, I survive somehow, but how will I get through tomorrow? That is the real question. Will I even live through tomorrow?" Now repression is total. Open dissent is impossible as the state's watchers are everywhere. Footage we obtained shows regime supporters driving through the city at night, flags flying from their cars – a message to any who might be tempted to protest. The official narrative is the only one allowed. State television broadcasts footage of demonstrations and funerals. Interviews with pro-regime officials and protestors offer repeated denunciations of America and Israel. In government propaganda the Iranian people are extolled as willing to suffer martyrdom. Independent journalists still try to gather testimony that offers a credible alternative view, but they run the risk of arrest, torture and possibly worse. As one of them told me: "In wartime conditions you really don't know what they are capable of doing." It is only in their homes that some of Tehran's residents feel able to share their feelings. Like Ali, a man in his forties, middle class and educated, who had hoped the killing of Ayatollah Khamenei at the start of the war would bring change. Now he sees the streets around his home filled with security forces. Armed and masked men have set up checkpoints. "It is painful when I go into the streets. The city looks like the city of the dead." He is taking anti-depressants, to "keep myself normal" he says. "I see groups of people in the streets who are not from among us at all; they are people who support the government and who have, in effect, taken the streets away from us." Several Iranians who have spoken to the BBC describe conflicting emotions. They want the regime out but feel they and their country are under attack. "The situation is frightening…," says Ali. "The skies of your country are controlled by enemy forces. But at the same time there is always a hope in people's hearts. It's not that we are supporting America or Israel. But hoping simply that for one moment, something might happen that ends the current Iranian regime, and that the people will be able to create change." In her flat Baran is listening for the sound of explosions and messaging friends in other neighbourhoods. "Do you know what the difference is between our sky and the sky of the rest of the world?" she asks. "They sleep under the stars at night, and we sleep under rockets. Both skies give light, but different kinds of light." Baran thinks the war may go on for years, and that its psychological effects will last even longer. "This war will not end soon, because this war is inside our homes, inside the families…The war has entered our blood and has entered our lives." The citizens of this 6,000-year-old city are living in dread of American and Israeli bombs. Of the regime and its torturers. A daily unrelenting dread from which there is no sign of escape. With additional reporting by Alice Doyard. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Israel says Iran's top security official, Ali Larijani, and the head of the paramilitary Basij force, Gholamreza Soleimani, have been killed in Israeli air strikes. "Larijani and the Basij commander were eliminated last night and have joined Khamenei, the head of the annihilation programme, along with all those eliminated from the Axis of Evil in the depths of hell," Defence Minister Israel Katz said. Iranian authorities have confirmed the deaths of both men, as well as Larijani's son and bodyguards. Larijani is the most senior Iranian official to have been assassinated since the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was killed on the first day of Israeli and US strikes on 28 February. They triggered a war that has spread across the Middle East, with Iran retaliating by launching missiles and drones at Israel and Arab states hosting US military facilities. The price of oil has surged, with Iranian attacks forcing production stoppages in Gulf states and disrupting exports through the vital Strait of Hormuz waterway. Iran's Supreme National Security Council (SNSC) confirmed early on Wednesday local time that Larijani had been killed alongside his son, Morteza, and one of his aides, as well as bodyguards. "After a lifetime of struggle for the advancement of Iran and of the Islamic Revolution, he [Larijani]... answered the call of God," it said in a statement that was read out on state TV. The announcement came several hours after the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said its air force had killed Larijani in a "precise strike" near Tehran the night before. "Following the elimination of Khamenei, Larijani consolidated his status as the de-facto leader of the Iranian regime and led the combat efforts against the State of Israel and countries across the region," the IDF said. But later on Tuesday, Larijani's social media accounts posted an undated, handwritten note that state media said was written on Tuesday. The note praised the 84 "warriors" of the Iranian navy, who were killed in a US submarine attack on their warship off the coast of Sri Lanka this month. A ceremony was held to honour the sailors on Tuesday evening. State TV read out a similar message about the sailors that it said was from Soleimani, the commander of the Basij Resistance Force - whom the Revolutionary Guards later confirmed was dead. The Basij is a volunteer militia whose estimated one million members are often called out onto the streets to use force to suppress dissent. It is controlled by the powerful IRGC. "During internal protests in Iran, particularly in recent periods as demonstrations intensified, Basij forces under Soleimani's command led the main repression operations," the IDF said. The IDF also released video footage showing what it said was one of several air strikes targeting Basij checkpoints across Tehran on Tuesday. Local media in Iran last week reported that a number of security personnel had been killed in Israeli strikes on four checkpoints in the capital. Larijani was a former IRGC commander, who rose to prominence as head of Iran's state broadcaster, IRIB. He held the position for 10 years before becoming a security adviser to Khamenei in 2004. He also served as Iran's chief nuclear negotiator with the West and as Speaker of Iran's parliament. A former leader of the hardline "principlist" faction - committed to the ideological principles of the Islamic revolution, Larijani was described a "moderate conservative" in later years. He was appointed secretary of  the SNSC last August and is thought to have overseen the unprecedented crackdown by the Basij and other security forces on protests that swept across Iran in December and January. At least 6,508 protesters were killed and 53,000 arrested, human rights activists say. He was also the late supreme leader's representative on the council, and was described by Iranian news outlets as an adviser to Khamenei. Before the war, Khamenei reportedly tasked Larijani with devising a plan to ensure that the Islamic Republic would survive a major attack by Israel and the US, including the assassination of its leadership. After Khamenei's death, Larijani became an even more powerful figure. Although Khamenei's son, Mojtaba, was chosen as his successor, he has not been seen in public or appeared in any recent photographs or videos since the start of the war, having reportedly been injured in the Israeli strike that killed his father. By contrast, Larijani regularly responded to statements by US President Donald Trump on social media, and was filmed walking with supporters of the Islamic Republic at the Quds Day demonstration in Tehran last Friday. While it is very difficult to contact people in Iran because of an internet shutdown imposed by the authorities, Iranians opposed to the establishment sent text messages to BBC Persian welcomed the news of the deaths. "I think it was a very important step because the decision-making brains must be shut down," a man in his 30s from Tehran said. Another man, who lives in the nearby city of Karaj, said: "When they die, you might not believe it, but I get so happy because they're criminals and have so much blood on their hands." More than 1,300 people have been killed in Israeli and US strikes in Iran since the start of the war, including 226 women and 204 children, according to the Iranian government. In Israel, 12 people have been killed in Iranian missile attacks, authorities say. Sirens sounded across the country after Iranian forces launched several missile barrages on Tuesday. There were reports of fires from impacts, but Israel's emergency services said nobody was wounded. In the United Arab Emirates, authorities said debris from an intercepted Iranian missile killed a Pakistani national in Abu Dhabi's Bani Yas area. Oil loading at the port of Fujairah was also partly halted after a third drone attack in four days. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Roads surrounding an RAF base used by the United States Air Force (USAF) to launch operations against Iran have been closed in a bid to "address safety and access issues". Protective screens have gone up around RAF Fairford to stop people from filming into the base. The area has become popular with plane spotters since USAF bombers began arriving at the base earlier this month, with traffic cones placed on Whelford Road to stop people from parking on the road and the verges. "All of the measures currently in place have been agreed following discussions with Gloucestershire Constabulary and RAF Fairford," Joe Harris, highways cabinet member at Gloucestershire County Council, said. Harris said a road closure has also been introduced on Dunfield Road so residents can access their homes at all times. Jo Hursey, a military veteran from Wiltshire, said: "There's some sensitive information behind the scenes here, and when it comes to it we just need to employ some intelligence and do the right thing." Hursey made the half-hour trip from Royal Wootton Bassett to Fairford to see the planes and "witness history", but said she saw people using ladders to look over the barrier, which she believes is inappropriate. The Dunfield Loop road, which runs adjacent to the base and leads to the runway, is closed in both directions. Gloucestershire Police confirmed that an officer had previously closed the road due to poor parking and the need to keep crash gates clear. The closure is now being managed by Gloucestershire County Council. Phil Kerton, leader of Neighbourhood Watch at Hazel View in Kempsford, said there is a car park at the bottom of the estate he lives on, but plane enthusiasts just "park wherever". He said: "The Loop road was like the M25. "I've seen it down on the Top Road, but it was actually worse on the front of the airfield because in the dark... [plane spotters] were standing right on the edge of the road with no reflective clothing. "You came upon them at the last minute... and that's what we don't like about this present moment with regards to all the aircraft." Photographers captured images of ordnance being prepared at the base for use against Iran earlier this week. In a statement, a spokesperson for the USAF said: "The 501st Combat Support Wing remains vigilant and will take appropriate actions to ensure the safety and security of our US service members, civilians, contractors, and their families. "We constantly assess a variety of factors that determine what measures we institute or modify to protect our installations, our people and their families." The UK government has approved the use of US bases on its territory for "defensive" strikes on Iranian military sites, and British forces have been deployed to help defend its allies in the Gulf and Cyprus, but it has refused to get involved in the wider war. Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. Zac Summers-Cameron died in 2025, aged 22, after his testicular cancer was originally misdiagnosed. Lester Murphy says he wants to inspire others who have been diagnosed the neurological disorder. A collection of photos from Bristol, Somerset, Wiltshire and Gloucestershire in early spring. Councils are considering permanent options as replacing scaffolding would cost £600,000. Leus du Plooy hit 182 and Toby Roland-Jones took three late wickets as Middlesex take charge against Gloucestershire at Lord's. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
In the third week of the joint US-Israeli war against Iran, Donald Trump faces decisions that could define the rest of his presidency. But if the American commander-in-chief is grappling with a war of choice that seems in danger of spiralling in ways he can't control, those concerns are not playing out in public. In more than an hour of public remarks at the White House on Monday, he discussed his thinking on the state of the war effort - and also on Kennedy Center renovations, White House ballroom construction plans, this year's World Cup tournament, the health of a Republican congressman and a host of other unrelated topics. It was classic Trump, as unscripted and wide-ranging as ever. This past weekend, he played golf at his Florida resort. And on his Truth Social website, he devoted nearly as much time to railing about the Supreme Court as he did to discussing the Iran War. While Trump may be interested in other topics, he is confronting a lesson previous American presidents have learned the hard way - that war can consume a presidency whether they want it to or not. And evidence continues to mount that a war that Trump had previously said was "already won" and "very complete" now has a timeline that could stretch for weeks or even longer. On Monday afternoon, Trump announced that the US had requested that a planned presidential trip to China in early April be delayed for a month because of the war. "The president's utmost responsibility right now as commander in chief is to ensure the continued success of Operation Epic Fury," White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said when the move was first reported, referring to the military name for the Iran war. Over the weekend, the president posted on social media that he was forming a coalition of forces to help protect shipping through the Strait of Hormuz, which has been threatened by Iranian attacks. "Hopefully China, France, Japan, South Korea, the UK, and others, that are affected by this artificial constraint, will send Ships," he wrote. "One way or the other, we will soon get the Hormuz Strait OPEN, SAFE, and FREE! Since his call, however, a growing list of nations – including Japan, Australia and many European powers – have indicated that they are not interested in joining the effort. "We will not be drawn into the wider war," UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer said on Monday, adding that he was open to a "viable collective plan" to address the situation in the strait. That leaves Trump with the unpleasant decision of whether to more fully commit the US Navy to securing the narrow waterway through which approximately 20% of the world's oil supply passes. On Monday, he noted that the US was destroying Iran's minelaying ships – which present a key danger to navigating the strait - but "all it takes is one". "It's a little unfair," he said. "You win a war, but they have no right to be doing what they're doing." There are some signs the US is taking steps to keep its military options open. Last Friday, US media reported that the president had ordered a Marine amphibious unit, which includes 5,000 soldiers and sailors, from Japan to the Middle East. If Trump chooses to act, it could put US forces in greater danger due to their proximity to Iran. If he doesn't act - if he instead announces the US has achieved its objective of significantly degrading Iran's military power and wraps up the American military campaign - Iran could continue to pose a threat to shipping and the price of oil could remain stubbornly high. In the second scenario, the US may have spent tens of billions of dollars without conclusively altering the Middle East balance of power. According to Clifford Young, chair of public affairs and strategic insights at polling company Ipsos, an extended surge in energy prices would pose a very real political threat to a president who is already on shaky ground with the American public. For the moment, he said, polls indicate that Trump's core supporters continue to stick with him even as they have some doubts about the Iran operation and other core issues, like immigration and tariffs. The erosion of his support has come at the margins, among centrist Republican and independent voters. While the president's popularity, with approval ratings in the low 40% range, should be a concern for Republicans, there's little sign yet that the Iran war is dragging him down significantly. That could all change, however, if the war affects the issues that Americans tell pollsters they care about the most - the cost of living and affordability. Prices, particularly for housing, groceries and consumer goods, continue to remain high even as the overall inflation rate has dropped over the first year of Trump's presidency. At the very least, the war in Iran distracts Trump and his administration from efforts to convince the American public that the president is addressing their economic concerns. And if the cost of gas at the pump – until recently a source of pride for Trump - stays high, it could have dire consequences for his political standing. The current average cost of a gallon of petrol in the US, according to the American Automobile Association, is $3.72 - a dramatic increase from the $2.94 average price a month ago. "It just blows up everything," Young said. "The affordability agenda gets torpedoed from the Republican point of view." On the other end of the risk equation for the president is the very real danger that comes with choosing to expand US operations in the Middle East. With thousands of Marines reportedly on the way to the region, Trump could engage American ground forces to secure the Strait of Hormuz, to control Iranian oil export terminals or to locate and more thoroughly dismantle components of the nation's nuclear programme. Any use of US troops, however, risks greater outcry from the majority of the American public that is wary of yet another protracted US military engagement, including many of whom believe Trump's campaign promises to avoid foreign wars. "There's a forever war fatigue," Young said. "If we put boots on the ground, that's a whole new risk for the administration. That changes everything." If the US involvement in Iran continues to be limited to an aerial campaign, however, Trump has time to regain his political footing. While Americans can be quick to blame the president for higher prices at the pump, their anger tends not to linger if those prices go down. The midterm congressional elections in November are still more than seven months away, giving the president time to find a resolution that avoids a domestic economic crisis. "We don't need anybody," Trump said on Monday. "We're the strongest nation in the world." The challenge for Trump, however, is that – with or without help – none of Trump's present choices are without risk and the odds of a quick and easy resolution are dwindling by the day. Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Canadian officials have charged two people with murder in what they have called a "targeted incident" that led to the death of an Iranian regime critic, generating widespread concern in the Canadian-Iranian community. The remains of Masood Masjoody, 45, a former university math instructor, were found last week in Mission, British Columbia. He had been missing since early February. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) said Mehdi Ahmadzadeh Razavi, 48, and Arezou Soltani, 45, have been charged with one count of first-degree murder in the death. They were due in court on Monday. Police said the motive is under investigation but noted the three had disputes and exchanges on social media. Officials launched an investigation after receiving reports from concerned neighbours and determining that Masjoody's disappearance was out of character. They did not provide further information about how Masjoody's remains were discovered or exactly where they were found. "We understand this case has impacted the Iranian community and has generated widespread concern and public interest," said Freda Fong, spokesperson for the RCMP's homicide investigations team. "While the motive is still under investigation, we can say the victim and two accused were known to each other." Fong said the laying of first-degree murder charges "marks a significant milestone and reflects the hard work undertaken over the past several weeks; however, much work remains as the prosecution process begins." Neither Ahmadzadeh Razavi nor Soltani had a criminal record in Canada, she added. Masjoody was reportedly an outspoken critic of the Iranian regime who police previously described as someone "known for his online presence". He served as a board member of the Iran Front for the Revival of Law and National Sovereignty, an anti-regime group. When he disappeared, the group released a statement saying they were concerned and noting he had devoted years to exposing "influence and intimidation networks linked to the Islamic Republic within the host countries of Iranian communities". After his remains were found and the suspects charged, the group claimed Masjoody had become a victim of "lawlessness" and "political violence". Canada recently banned 2,500 models of "assault-style" firearms - but a plan to buy-back tens of thousands of guns fell short by half. Jon Shipman says it was "ridiculous" that passengers were left in Newfoundland for two days. How a play broadcast live on Canadian television in 1956 became the famous comedy film Airplane!. Inspired by a picture of Neil Armstrong, the Ontario-born astronaut has dreamed of space since he was a child. The final six nations have qualified for the 2026 World Cup - this is your essential lowdown on the expanded edition of the tournament. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Throughout his two terms in office, US President Donald Trump has not been shy to criticise – even to attack – Washington's Nato allies. But his latest suggestion – that failing to secure the Strait of Hormuz would be "very bad for the future of Nato" – implies an understanding of the alliance's purpose that has already raised eyebrows. "Nato was created as a… defensive alliance," Gen Sir Nick Carter, former chief of the Defence Staff, told the BBC on Monday. "It was not an alliance that was designed for one of the allies to go on a war of choice and then oblige everybody else to follow," he said. "I'm not sure that's the sort of Nato that any of us wanted to belong to." Coming from a president who only two months ago was making strident claims to Greenland, the sovereign territory of a fellow Nato member, there is more than a little irony in the latest remarks. This perhaps helps to explain why some responses have been fairly blunt. In Germany, a government spokesman said the war with Iran had "nothing to do with Nato", while Defence Minister Boris Pistorius seemed to pour scorn on the idea that Europe's modest navies could make a difference. "What does Trump expect from a handful of European frigates that the powerful US navy cannot do?" he asked. "This is not our war. We have not started it." But none of this should hide the fact that there is now an urgent, and growing, need for a solution to the crisis in the Gulf. Iran's effective blocking of the Strait of Hormuz – except for a handful of vessels carrying its own oil to allies like India and China – has left Western governments scrambling to find a solution. It may be a crisis triggered by Trump's decision to go to war, but it is one that needs to be fixed quickly, before the impacts on the global economy get any worse. But it is already clear that there is no quick fix. At his news conference on Monday, UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said conversations aimed at working out a "viable plan" were ongoing with the US, European and Gulf partners, but that we are "not at the point of decisions yet". The prime minister referred to autonomous mine-hunting systems which he said were already in the region. With HMS Middleton, a mine countermeasures vessel (MCMV) back in Portsmouth for major maintenance, this is the first time in decades when no British mine-clearing ship is in the region. Instead, the Royal Navy is expected to offer newly developed seaborne drones, designed to detect and neutralise mines without putting crews at risk. But one of the problems Trump is wrestling with is that minesweeping, once a core function of almost all navies, has long since ceased to be a top priority. Tom Sharpe, a former Royal Navy commander, said the latest British technologies had yet to be tested in combat. "We're probably going to find out in the next few weeks whether or not it works," he told the BBC. Gen Carter said the last time Western nations carried out a major de-mining operation at sea was in 1991, after Iraq mined the waters off Kuwait to prevent an amphibious landing in the first Gulf War. "It took us fifty-one days to clear the mines," he told the BBC. "No navy has invested in this at the scale that they should have done, least of all the Americans." The US navy's own Avenger-class specialised minesweepers, built with wooden hulls to avoid triggering magnetic naval mines, are all being withdrawn from service, replaced by Independence-class littoral combat ships which also use a variety of unmanned systems. But it is not just about minesweeping. Iran's Revolutionary Guard is also capable of using armed fast boats, naval "suicide" drones and shore-based missiles to disrupt shipping. Recent pictures, released by Iran's Fars News Agency, appeared to show large numbers of boats and drones being stored in underground tunnels, suggesting that Tehran has long been preparing for just such a moment. Trump has suggested that keeping the Strait of Hormuz open – which he last night described as a "very small endeavour" – might involve attacks on the Iranian coastline. He said he was looking for "people who are going to knock out some bad actors that are along the shore". The US has already targeted mine-laying boats at berth in Iranian ports, but it is hard to see many of Washington's allies being willing to follow suit, especially if this involves putting boots on the ground. In an environment so full of possible dangers, it is not surprising that countries are hesitating to get involved, preferring instead to call, as the UK government has, for de-escalation as the surest way of unlocking the Strait of Hormuz. But with American and Israeli officials talking about a campaign that could last several more weeks, that does not look like an immediate prospect. In the meantime, could allies be persuaded to send ships to escort merchant vessels through the vital waterway? "Germany will not participate with its military in securing the Strait of Hormuz," Pistorius said on Monday. EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas later said there was a "clear wish" to extend EU naval operations in the Middle East, but that EU foreign ministers declined to extend an existing naval mission in the Red Sea. "This is not Europe's war," she added. The EU's Operation Aspides was launched in 2024 to help meet the threats to shipping posed by the Iranian-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen but, with a strength of just three warships, it is relatively modest. Germany's Foreign Minister, Johann Wadephul, said his government wanted to hear from Israel and the US "when they believe they will have achieved their military objectives in Iran" before discussing new security arrangements. Of the major European allies, France's President Emmanuel Macron is perhaps the keenest to get involved, saying a week ago that he was trying to put together a coalition to escort vessels and guarantee freedom of navigation. But he said this could only happen once the "hottest phase" of the conflict was over and a few days later, his Defence Minister, Catherine Vautrin, said there were no immediate plans to send vessels into the Strait of Hormuz. Sharpe said a potential escort operation would be much more complex than Operation Aspides, with threats coming from three directions: the air, surface and underwater. "Unlike with the Houthis, where it was only an air threat, with Iran, you have all three and you want to try and shoot these things before they're fired," he said. "That's not always possible." At the moment, Trump's somewhat shellshocked allies are hesitating outside the door marked "Iran involvement", looking nervously at each other but conscious that inaction is not really an option. Sir Keir said the solution needed to involve "as many partners as possible" but British military personnel needed important reassurances before being deployed on a potentially dangerous mission. "The very least they deserve is to know that they do so on a legal basis and with a proper thought through plan." As things stand, that plan does not exist. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A second man has been released without charge after four men were arrested as part of a counter-terror investigation relating to Iran. The Metropolitan Police said a 52-year-old, who was arrested in Watford, was released on Sunday. The four suspects, one Iranian and three dual British-Iranian nationals, were arrested on 6 March under the National Security Act on suspicion of assisting a foreign intelligence service. The Met previously said the investigation related to the suspected surveillance of locations and individuals linked to London's Jewish community. A 55-year-old man, who was arrested in Barnet, has also been released without charge. The two remaining suspects, aged 22 and 40, remain in custody. Investigators have permission to hold them in police custody until 20 March. As part of the operation, six other men were arrested on suspicion of assisting an offender, with one further arrested on suspicion of assaulting a police officer. All six have been bailed pending further inquiries. Commander Helen Flanagan, head of Counter Terrorism Policing London, previously said the arrests were part of "a long-running investigation" and "ongoing work to disrupt malign activity where we suspect it". The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two members of Iran's national women's football team who sought asylum in Australia have been pictured training at the grounds of the A-league football team Brisbane Roar. "Everything will be fine," one of them, Fatemeh Pasandideh, posted on Instagram. She and Atefeh Ramezanisadeh were among seven Iranian footballers who originally said they were seeking asylum on their trip to the Women's Asian Cup in Australia but the other five changed their minds. The footballers were given humanitarian visas to stay in Australia after concerns the team would face repercussions for declining to sing the Iranian national anthem at their opening Asian Cup match. The five players who changed their mind have now left Australia and are believed to be on their way home. Brisbane Roar women's squad posted photos of Pasandideh and Ramezanisadeh smiling with other team members, on the club's social media accounts. Brisbane Roar FC Chief Executive Kaz Patafta said the team "officially welcomed both to the club's training facilities to take part in training with our A-League Women squad". He said the team was committed to providing a "supportive environment for them whilst they navigate the next stages" but the club would not be commenting further. After the team declined to sing the national anthem at the Women's Cup on 2 March, the players were moved to Brisbane, about an hour's drive north from the Gold Coast  where they had been staying with their teammates before giving minders the slip and going into the protection of Australian Federal Police. Human rights activists have said the women who left may have been pressured to reverse their decisions through threats against their families. After the news of the first five players being granted visas broke, the Brisbane club released a statement last Tuesday, saying they wanted to welcome the Iranian footballers. They had been watching the story of the Iran women's team "with immense admiration", the club said. "These are elite footballers - passionate, talented women who love the game just as deeply as we do. "Brisbane is home to one of the country's most passionate football communities, and the Roar family has a big heart. "We'd be honoured to open our doors and offer you a place to train, play, and belong and will begin to explore how to make this happen.  No politics. No conditions. Just football, community, and a warm welcome. Queensland is your home now." The drama around the Iranian team unfolded against the background of the war back in their home country which erupted on 28 February when Israel and the US launched joint air strikes. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Most people, although not everybody, want this war to end as quickly as possible. But on what terms? That is where positions diverge. President Donald Trump's war aims have been somewhat opaque, appearing to vacillate between a simple curtailment of Iran's nuclear programme, to capitulation to all US and Israeli demands, to the total collapse of the Islamic Republic regime. So far, Iran has neither capitulated nor collapsed. But its military has been severely weakened by 16 days of relentless precision bombing. Indirect talks between the US and Iran in Geneva in February, mediated by Oman, were making progress on the nuclear file. The Omanis say Iran was prepared to make major concessions that offered significant reassurance Tehran was not pursuing a nuclear weapon. What Iran was not prepared to discuss was curtailing or cancelling its ballistic missile programme nor its support for proxy groups around the region, like the Houthis in Yemen or Hezbollah in Lebanon. In an ideal world for Washington, and for many of its allies, this war ends with the collapse of the rule of the ayatollahs, to be swiftly replaced by a peaceful, democratically elected government that no longer poses a threat to its people or its neighbours. But as of Monday, that shows no sign of happening. A next best result for the US would be if a severely damaged Islamic Republic were to then modify its behaviour, stop mistreating its citizens and end its support for radical militias in the region. Again, this looks unlikely after Iran chose as its new supreme leader, a man most likely to irritate Washington in the form of Mojtaba Khamenei, the son of his late, hardline predecessor, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. With rising global oil prices, a partially blocked Strait of Hormuz and increasing unease back home that America is getting sucked into yet another costly Middle Eastern conflict, there will be mounting pressure on President Trump to call off this war. But it will be hard for him to present it as anything other than a failure if the regime in Tehran survives, unchastened and defiant. Iran wants the war to stop as quickly as possible but not at any price - ie not if it means caving in to all Washington's demands. It knows that it probably has the "strategic patience" to outlast Trump in this war, plus it has geography on its side. Iran has the longest coastline of any Gulf state and it has the capacity to threaten shipping - which in normal times carries around 20% of the world's oil supplies - indefinitely as it passes through the narrow chokepoint of the Strait of Hormuz. The US president's call on countries to come and help cope with the consequences of a war he co-started with Israel is being met with reluctance. The UK, Europe and other countries are wary of putting their navies in harm's way, escorting commercial vessels through the Strait, when they did not support this war in the first place. Officially, Iran says the war must end with a cast-iron guarantee that it won't be attacked again and it also wants war reparations for the billions of dollars' worth of damage done by US and Israeli airstrikes. It probably knows it won't get either. But Iran's Islamic Republic leadership and its Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) only have to survive this conflict to be able to present it to their people and the world as a victory. Of the three combatant nations – the US, Iran and Israel – the Israelis seem to be in the least hurry to end this war. They want to see as much as possible of Iran's ballistic missile stocks destroyed, along with storage depots, command and control centres, radar sites and IRGC bases. All of these, of course, can be rebuilt when the shooting stops so Israel wants Iran to understand there is a severe cost in doing so, namely that the Israeli Air Force is quite capable of returning and bombing them again in a few months' time. Israel sees Iran's missiles and its suspect nuclear programme as an existential threat. Iran has – or at least had, up until this war started - a highly-developed homegrown missile and drone industry. (It gave its ally Russia the Shahed drones that have pummelled Ukraine). Iran has also been enriching uranium to 60% purity, far beyond the level needed for civil nuclear power. Taken together, the government of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sees these twin threats as something Israel cannot live with. The Gulf Arab states – Saudi Arabia, UAE, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait and Oman – thought they could live with the Islamic Republic just across the water. Until now. They are furious that despite declining to back this war on Iran they have still been coming under almost daily bombardment from Iran's drones and missiles. In the first few hours of this Monday alone, the Saudi defence ministry reported it had intercepted more than 60 projectiles aimed at its territory. "A red line has been crossed", one Gulf official told me. "There is zero trust between us and Tehran and we cannot have normal relations with them after this". The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"We are like hostages here and we can't do anything but wait." The words of a friend in Iran relayed to West Midlands woman Nargis and then shared with the BBC. Nargis lives in Birmingham, but has family and friends in places like Tehran and Isfahan. After getting in touch with BBC Your Voice, she told us she had not been able to contact her loved ones directly since Saturday, as heavy bombardment continued across the capital. We are not sharing her real name or details of her occupation because of the risks faced by Iranians who speak out against the government, including those living abroad. "When we hear from them it's just like 'we are fine' which means that 'we are alive'," Nargis later told BBC Radio WM. "I know that like any other family they don't want to make us worry [any] more so they probably don't tell us all of the reality of what they're experiencing." With the conflict now into its third week, people like Nargis remain gripped with anxiety about their loved ones and have no reliable way to contact them. "I don't know how long we are going to be able to bear this level of stress that we are feeling every day," she continued. "We hear the news about what is happening or which places have been attacked but then we cannot hear from our family." Nargis is also sceptical about whether the conflict will lead to political change, believing the new Iranian leader is "an unknown quantity". "I don't think, and many people around, we don't think that war is a solution," she went on. "I think it's a very simplified version of reality if we say all people of Iran wanted this. "Iran is a huge country with 90 million people and there are many people who didn't want the war." Sean Bell, a military analyst and former Air Vice Marshal based in Solihull, told BBC Radio WM that President Trump appeared to have underestimated Iran's ability to resist. He explained Iran was fighting American technology with a huge number of inexpensive drones, while blocking the Strait of Hormuz to push up the price of oil, something that is already being felt at petrol pumps across the UK. "It doesn't look like Iran is getting ready to negotiate," he said. "Quite frankly, I think President Trump's bitten off more than he can chew here. "Iran has time on its hands. It is absolutely clear that President Trump does not." Follow BBC Birmingham on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Indian Foreign Minister S Jaishankar has said he is hopeful that talks with Iran will begin to ease shipping disruptions for the country's vessels in the Strait of Hormuz. "I am at the moment engaged in talking to them and my talking has yielded some results," he told the Financial Times. He added, however, that there was no "blanket arrangement" for all Indian ships to pass through the narrow waterway, a vital oil shipping channel. Two Indian-flagged gas tankers passed through the strait on Saturday after discussions progressed between Delhi and Tehran. Twenty-two Indian-flagged vessels are still waiting for clearance to pass through the channel. The war in the Middle East - which began after US and Israel launched wide-ranging strikes on Iran on 28 February - has led to Iran almost completely blocking ship movements through the channel. Iran has also launched attacks on Israel and US-allied states in the Gulf, which have extended to non-military targets. The Strait of Hormuz is a narrow waterway between Iran and Oman linking the Persian Gulf with the Arabian Sea - about one-fifth of the world's oil and gas passes through the route. The channel is crucial for India as roughly 40-50% of its crude oil imports come through the strait. It also carries around half of the country's liquefied natural gas imports and most of its liquefied petroleum gas shipments. India has been dealing with a squeeze in cooking-gas supplies over the past few days, leading to panic-buying by domestic users and also forcing some restaurants to shut down temporarily. A few ships have managed to pass through the strait in recent days, often after diplomatic engagement with Tehran. Reports say vessels linked to China have been allowed to pass. Turkey has said one of its vessels crossed the strait following discussions with Iranian authorities. European governments including France and Italy are also exploring diplomatic options. Jaishankar told the Financial Times that India's discussions with Tehran were continuing. "This is ongoing. If it is yielding results for me, I would naturally continue to look at it," he said. Analysts say India is navigating a delicate diplomatic position as the crisis unfolds. Delhi maintains close ties with Israel and has growing strategic cooperation with the US, but also has longstanding political and economic links with Iran. India has called for dialogue and for the safety of commercial shipping in the region - reflecting both its reliance on Gulf energy supplies and its interest in keeping shipping routes open. Jaishankar told the Financial Times that India believed dialogue offered a better path than escalation. "Certainly, from India's perspective, it is better that we reason and we co-ordinate and we get a solution than we don't," he said. "So, if that sort of allows other people to engage, I think the world is better off for it." The comments come as US President Donald Trump urged countries including the UK and China to send warships to the Strait of Hormuz to help reopen the route. The tensions have already pushed energy prices higher. Brent crude - the international benchmark used to price much of the world's oil trade - rose close to $106 a barrel on Monday. Jaishankar told FT that India's engagement with Iran was based on its own bilateral relationship and might not apply to other countries. "Each relationship frankly, in a way, stands on its own merits," he said. He denied that India had offered anything to Iran in return for the passage of the two Indian tankers. "It's not an exchange issue," he said, adding that India and Iran had a longstanding relationship. He cautioned that the situation remained uncertain, with several Indian ships still waiting in the region. "These are still early days," he said. "We have many more ships there." Follow BBC News India on Instagram, YouTube, Twitter and Facebook. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran is taking steps to prevent anti-establishment protests, with checkpoints appearing across the streets of the capital, internet access restricted, and mass text warnings sent to residents. In Tehran, people have been telling the BBC about new security checkpoints around the city, where they say residents are stopped and searched. They have told BBC Persian that some checkpoints are positioned under footbridges and inside road tunnels, after reports that several checkpoints in the middle of roads had been targeted by drone strikes. A number of Iranian security personnel were killed in Israeli strikes on four checkpoints across Tehran, the hardline Fars News Agency reported on 11 March. Fars said unofficial counts indicated that around 10 members of the security forces were killed in strikes in four districts of the capital. Speaking to the BBC, a man in his twenties explained his strategy for getting through a checkpoint, where he said he was once stopped and his car was searched. "I started saying things like, 'Thanks for your hard work,' as if they were genuinely putting in a lot of effort and I appreciated it," he said. Security forces let him go after the search. "I always wear colourful clothes. But now I don't," said a woman, also in her twenties. "I'm scared of their patrols, worried that if I wear something too bright it might annoy them." Another man, also in his twenties, sells secure internet connections to some people, allowing them to bypass the government-imposed nationwide blackout. It is still very difficult to contact those inside Iran during the internet outage that has been in place since the start of the war, but tech-savvy residents have been using SpaceX's Starlink devices and sharing their connection with others. Restricting internet access not only restricts communication with the outside world, but also limits protesters' ability to mobilise, plan and communicate among each other. Encrypted messaging apps and platforms often function as tools for organising rallies, sharing protest locations, and circulating calls to action. When these platforms are unavailable, coordination becomes far more difficult. The man selling internet connections tells the BBC of his fear when a taxi he was travelling in passed through a checkpoint in a tunnel in Tehran. "What I do as a job is considered a crime in the Islamic Republic," he explains. "I was really worried, because I had my laptop and phone with me." "Luckily, they didn't search the taxi," he says. Iranian police have arrested a person in southern Fars Province over allegedly setting up a network to sell "unfiltered" internet via Starlink, according to a report by semi-official Mehr News Agency on 12 March. Deputy Commander of the Fars Province Police has said that a 37-year-old man who had "set up a network across several provinces of the country to sell unfiltered internet via Starlink has been arrested" and added that a "Starlink device and related equipment were discovered at the suspect's hideout". Using Starlink in Iran carries a punishment of up to two years in prison and authorities have reportedly been searching for Starlink dishes to stop people from connecting to the internet. Government spokesperson Fatemeh Mohajerani said on 10 March that the authorities were working to restore internet access "for those who can broadcast the country's voice to the world". For now, rates for internet access being sold on the Telegram messaging app seen by the BBC are around $6 (£4.50) for 1 gigabytes of data - a high price in a country where the average monthly salary is estimated to be between $200 to $300 (£151-226). Although Iranian domestic apps remain available, some of those the BBC spoke to fear that they may not be as secure as encrypted platforms for organising protests. During an interview with the BBC's US partner CBS on 15 March, Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi was asked why he able to speak via Zoom while his fellow countrymen are not allowed to access the internet. "That's because I am the voice of all Iranians. I defend their rights," he replied. In addition to officials, a number of journalists inside the country have access to so-called "white SIM cards", which provide them with unrestricted internet supplied by the authorities. Some residents of the capital told BBC Persian that since the beginning of the war, at night they hear chants and songs supporting the establishment on loudspeakers, while supporters carrying the Islamic Republic's flag move through the streets. BBC Persian is the Persian language service of BBC News, used by 24 million people around the world - the majority in Iran - despite being blocked and routinely jammed by Iranian authorities. So far, there have been no signs of the mass anti-establishment protests similar to those seen in January. The US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (Hrana) said it had confirmed the killing of at least 7,000 civilians during January's protests. Since the conflict began on 28 February, the authorities have organised pro‑establishment rallies and urged supporters to take to the streets to prevent what they describe as attempts to destabilise the country from within. BBC Persian has seen a text message sent by the Intelligence Unit of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) on 13 March warning against any upcoming protests. "The evil enemy… is once again seeking to create fear and chaos in the streets. A blow harder than January 8 is awaiting the neo-ISIS [Islamic State]." The most deadly nights of the huge anti-establishment protests in Iran saw two deadly nights on 8 and 9 January. Police Chief Brig Gen Ahmad Reza Radan said on 10 March that anyone attempting to "take action in the cities at the behest of the enemy" would no longer be treated as a protester but as an "enemy". On 8 March, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu issued a direct message to the Iranian people urging them to stand up against the establishment. But on 12 March during his first press conference since the war, he said that he could not "say with certainty that the Iranian people will bring down the regime". Additional reporting by Behrang Tajdin, BBC Persian The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The first reports appeared on foreign screens, beyond the reach of most Iranians. On 28 February Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said there were "signs that the tyrant is no more," suggesting Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had been killed in a joint US-Israeli strike. Iranians watching state television, however, encountered silence. Government officials would neither confirm nor deny Khamenei's death. On one of the state broadcaster's channels, IRTV3, one news presenter urged viewers to "trust" him and the "latest information" the government had. He dismissed news of Khamenei's death as "baseless rumours", which would "soon be revealed." It took until the following morning before Iranian state media reported the death of Khamenei, hours after US President Trump publicly announced it on social media. Since the beginning of the war that has reportedly killed more than 1,200 people in Iran and spread to Lebanon and Gulf Arab states, Iranian state media has blended fact with fiction, presenting an official version of events to its domestic audience. Although millions of Iranians follow foreign-based Persian-language satellite TV channels, accessing independent information can be difficult. Internet blackouts, censorship, and restricted channels leave Iranians largely cut off from the outside world during unrest and conflict. The BBC followed the first week of coverage of the war by the Iranian state media and found that they have centred their reporting on civilian suffering, calls for retaliation against its "enemies", pushes for public loyalty to the Islamic Republic, whilst giving little attention to military and government facilities struck by Israel and the US. We also found examples of disinformation. According to media watchdog Reporters Without Borders, Iran is one of the world's most repressive countries for press freedom. Since the 1979 revolution when the Islamic Republic of Iran was established, all media has been operating under strict restrictions. Most Western-based and Persian-language news outlets, including BBC Persian, are banned from reporting from the country. Although the regime's main platforms are TV and radio, it also operates online – through news websites and networks like Instagram, Telegram, and X. Access to these social media platforms from inside Iran typically requires a virtual private network (VPN). Its media apparatus has become the main source of information for people living in the country, particularly when the internet is cut off. "They have a narrative that they're pushing," says Mahsa Alimardani, from the human rights organisation Witness. "It is that they are quite victorious and that their military is very strong." Multiple Iranian state media outlets have reported that Iranian forces killed or injured hundreds of American troops, inflating the number of enemy casualties. On 3 March, Tasnim news, a semi-official news agency associated with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), reported that 650 military personnel from the US had been killed in the first two days of the war. It quoted a spokesperson from the IRGC. The claim was picked up by global news outlets from countries like India, Turkey and Nigeria. At the time, the Pentagon had confirmed the death of six US soldiers. On 13 March, the US Central Command confirmed the death of an additional seven US service members. New technology is also helping state media push propaganda. In a Facebook post, which has since been deleted, the state-run English-language news channel, Press TV, shared a video of a burning building, with plumes of smoke rising into the air. "Smoke rises from a high-rise in Bahrain following Iran's attack," read the description. But a close inspection revealed unusual details in the video, such as two cars seemingly blending into one – a sign that the video was fake, and made using AI. "While the use of AI-generated content in war propaganda certainly isn't new, the use of AI forgeries by major state media outlets, even those that don't exactly have a reputation for adhering to the truth, is striking," says Brett Schafer, senior director of the UK-based think tank Institute of Strategic Dialogue. "Iranian state media's repeated use of deepfakes suggests that this is a feature of their war reporting rather than a bug." Like much of the AI slop about the war that's flooded social media, it's unclear who made it and where it came from. However, since the war began the BBC has seen other examples of AI imagery shared by government outlets to push their narrative. Much of this imagery is hyper unrealistic and intended to glorify rather than mislead. The White House and US president Donald Trump also routinely share glorifying AI-generated images or videos meant to glorify. Israeli prime-minister Benjamin Netanyahu recently shared on Instagram an AI-generated image depicting himself, Trump, and wartime Prime Minister Winston Churchill in a triumphant pose. The post was added by a news outlet through the social media platform's collaboration feature. Iran's track record of feeding kernels of truth alongside false information has sown doubt among many critics of the regime inside and outside the country. When Iranian state media reported on 3 March that more than 160 children and staff were killed in a strike on a school – in what independent experts say was likely a US operation targeting a nearby military base – it also shared an aerial picture of a mass funeral. Opponents of the government claimed the funeral had been AI-generated. But the image was real. We geolocated it to a cemetery about 3.7km (2.3 miles) from the school, confirming that the trees, road layout and a nearby building matched those visible in satellite imagery. Freshly dug graves also appear on satellite imagery from the day after the funeral. The day before, the ground was bare. "We have to hold two truths at the same time," Mahsa Alimardani, from Witness, says. The Iranian regime often hides evidence when it is the perpetrator of abuses, but during the war it will also invest heavily in documenting civilian casualties. While that documentation can serve propaganda and the state's war narrative, she says, it doesn't automatically make it false. When it comes to Iran's state reporting, Alimardani notes, one should hold "healthy scepticism." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The captain of the Iranian women's football team has withdrawn her bid for Australian asylum, Iran's state media says, making her the fifth member of the delegation to change her mind. Zahra Ghanbari will fly from Malaysia back to Iran, news agency IRNA reported on Sunday. Australian officials confirmed another member had dropped their asylum application but did not identify them. It comes a day after authorities reported three other women had withdrawn their claims. The footballers had originally sought sanctuary after concerns the team would face repercussions for staying silent during the country's anthem at their opening Asian Cup match. The latest withdrawal means that, of the seven to initially accept Australia's offer of humanitarian visas, only two now remain in the country as defectors. Human rights activists have said the women may have been pressured to reverse their decisions through threats against their families. Shiva Amini, an exiled former Iranian national futsal player, said she had received information that Iran's Football Federation, working with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), had "placed intense and systemic pressure on the players' families in Iran". "Several of the players decided to go back because the threats against their families became unbearable and the intimidation was relentless," she wrote on X on Sunday. Iranian media reports hailed Ghanbari's decision, with IRNA saying she was "returning to the embrace of the homeland", while the semi-official Mehr news agency called it a "patriotic decision". On Saturday, three other members withdrew their bids for asylum, named by human rights activists in the Iranian diaspora as Zahra Soltan Meshkehkar, Mona Hamoudi and Zahra Sarbali. Confirming their decisions, Australia's home affairs minister said his government had done everything it could to ensure the women were given the chance to have a safe future in the country. "Australians should be proud that it was in our country that these women experienced a nation presenting them with genuine choices and interacted with authorities seeking to help them," Tony Burke said in a statement. "While the Australian government can ensure that opportunities are provided and communicated, we cannot remove the context in which the players are making these incredibly difficult decisions." Iran's sports ministry said in a statement that "the national spirit and patriotism of the Iranian women's national football team defeated the enemy's plans against this team", adding that Australia's government was "playing in Trump's field". IRGC-affiliated news agency Tasnim said the three were on their way to Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia to join the rest of the squad and were "returning to the warm embrace of their families and homeland". It said they had resisted "psychological warfare, extensive propaganda and seductive offers" in Australia. Australian minister Kristy McBain dismissed the statement as "propaganda". "I think our government's been very open with the Australian people about the steps that we've taken to ensure that these women in the Iranian soccer team and support staff had every opportunity to make their own decisions," she told ABC News. Last week, one player changed her mind, followed by the two players and one staff member who left Australia on Saturday. Concerns grew for the Iranian team after they refused to sing Iran's anthem in their opening Asian Cup match against South Korea on 2 March - which led to them being branded "wartime traitors" in Iran amid calls for a harsh punishment. The team did sing the anthem in their last two games before they were eliminated, leading critics to believe they had been told to sing by government officials accompanying them during the tournament. The other Iranian players left Australia on 10 March - two days after they were knocked out of the Women's Asian Cup. The football drama has unfolded against a backdrop of war in the Middle East after US-Israeli strikes on Iran prompted retaliatory attacks from Iran across the region. Additional reporting by Robert Greenall Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Double-murderer Dezi Freeman evaded capture for seven months in the bush but police believe he had help. Australians lose more money to gambling, per capita, than anywhere else in the world. Lawyers for Naveed Akram had argued his mother, brother and sister live in "constant fear". Anthony Albanese used a rare TV address to tell Australians that the "months ahead may not be easy" amid the global effects of the war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The prime minister has spoken to Donald Trump about the importance of reopening the Strait of Hormuz "to end the disruption to global shipping", Downing Street has said. It comes a day after the US president urged the UK and other nations to send warships to the Gulf to help secure the vital oil shipping channel, which has been all but shut since the US and Israel began their war against Iran two weeks ago. Energy Secretary Ed Miliband told the BBC earlier that the UK was looking at "any options" which would help reopen the strait, including working with the US and other allies. Iran's effective closure of the waterway has had a catastrophic impact on global supply chains and energy prices. A number of ships are said to have been attacked as they attempted to navigate the narrow strait since the conflict began - through which about 20% of the world's oil usually passes. There are also concerns that Iran has placed mines in the passage as part of its attempts to hinder shipping. According to a statement attributed to Iran's new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei, Iran will continue blocking the strait, as a means of political and economic pressure against the US. A Downing Street spokeswoman said Sir Keir and Trump had "discussed the ongoing situation in the Middle East and the importance of reopening the Strait of Hormuz to end the disruption to global shipping, which is driving up costs worldwide". "The prime minister also expressed his condolences for the American service personnel who have lost their lives during the conflict. "They agreed to keep in touch." The spokeswoman said the prime minister had also spoken to Canada's Prime Minister Mark Carney in a separate call and they agreed on the importance of ending the blockade. Miliband told BBC One's Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg programme that it was "very important" that the strait be made safe for shipping, but refused to give details of options being considered by the government. He called the strait's reopening a "priority" and said there were "different ways we can contribute, including with mine-hunting drones". Pressed on whether the UK was considering sending drones or ships to the region, Miliband responded: "You can rest assured that any options that can help to get the strait reopened are being looked at in concert with our allies." Refusing to be drawn into operational details, Miliband reiterated that "ending the conflict is the best and surest way to get the strait reopened". Speaking later on the same programme, shadow energy secretary Claire Coutinho said the UK should explore sending ships or drones to the Middle East if it were in the national interest. She said it was in the UK's interests to reopen international shipping lanes and protect military assets abroad, and added that the Conservative party would have allowed its US allies to use UK military bases more quickly than Labour did. Meanwhile, Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey argued the UK should not send ships to help secure the strait, and instead focus on "de-escalating" the war. Hitting out at Trump as "very reckless" in this "illegal and damaging war", Sir Ed said Britain should not be at the beck and call of an American president "who does not seem to know what he is doing". In 2025, about 20 million barrels of oil passed through the Strait of Hormuz per day, according to estimates from the US Energy Information Administration – nearly $600bn (£447bn) worth of energy trade per year. It is also a key trading route for other commodities such as helium, the chemical sulphate, and urea, which is used to produce fertiliser. Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi has said the strait remains open to vessels that do not belong to the country's "enemies" and that Iran is "open to countries who want to talk" about safe passage through it. He claimed on Sunday to have been approached by a number of nations, but did not name them. Tehran - which has adopted attacks on energy targets as a key element of its response to US and Israeli strikes - has warned that any tanker bound for the either nation or its partners is a legitimate target. At least 16 vessels, including a number of tankers, are reported to have been attacked near the shipping lane during the conflict so far, the UK Maritime Trade Operations said in its latest update. Oil prices have soared since the war began on 28 February, jumping from some $71 a barrel before the conflict to a high of nearly $120 on Monday. Prices have since fallen back but remain elevated. After initially refusing to allow the US to use UK bases for the offensive against Iran, Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer gave permission for "defensive" US action on Iranian missile sites from RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire and Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean - while maintaining the UK did not believe in "regime change from the skies". Trump had branded Sir Keir "no Winston Churchill" over his approach to the war, and just last week said the US did not need the UK to send aircraft carriers to the region - accusing the prime minister of seeking to "join wars after we've already won". On Sunday, two US B-1 Lancer bombers took off from RAF Fairford - likely carrying powerful "bunker buster" bombs and cruise missiles. Of the three large strategic US Air Force bombers being used in the war - the other two being the B-52 and B-2 stealth aircraft - the Lancers carry the largest payload of weapons. The bombers were expected to take some seven or eight hours to reach Iran, for a total mission time of around 15 hours. Additional reporting by Chris Partridge, BBC News weapons analyst The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Police say they are investigating chants of "death to the IDF [Israel Defense Forces]" led by Bobby Vylan, of the punk duo Bob Vylan, at an Al Quds Day protest in central London. Hundreds attended static protests on Sunday after Home Secretary Shabana Mahmood agreed to a police request to ban the annual march over fears of public disorder. Twelve arrests were made during a protest and counter-protest, the Metropolitan Police said. Videos on social media appeared to show Vylan, whose real name is Pascal Robinson-Foster, making a speech at the demonstration before chanting "death, death to the IDF" as the crowd joined in. Last year, police decided not to bring criminal charges after the group's Glastonbury 2025 performance when Vylan led crowds in chants of "death, death to the IDF". In a post on X, the Met said: "We are aware of chanting made by a speaker at the Al Quds protest and will be investigating. "We recognise the concern footage and chanting like this causes, particularly with London's Jewish communities. "When this language had been used previously we sought advice from the CPS (Crown Prosecution Service) who determined that there would be insufficient evidence to take a case forward." The CPS said it was aware of the chants at Sunday's protest, adding "we carefully consider each case referred to us for charging decision or early advice to see whether it can be taken to court". The spokesperson said that in cases where the evidence is not sufficient, the CPS works with police to identify what more can be done to meet the threshold for charging. "Hateful chanting or waving of offensive flags may constitute an offence and where behaviour goes beyond lawful protest we will not hesitate to prosecute," they added. Twelve people were arrested for showing support for a proscribed organisation, affray, dangerous driving and threatening or abusive behaviour, police said. Lambeth Bridge was closed on Sunday afternoon and around 1,000 officers were on duty to keep both groups apart. The organisers described it as a pro-Palestinian protest but the Met say those behind the demonstration are supportive of the Iranian regime. At the Al Quds rally, many people waved the Iranian flag and held placards which said "Choose the right side of history". Some demonstrators chanted "from the river to the sea" while others held pictures of the late Iranian leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Al-Quds Day, named after the Arabic name for Jerusalem, is often held on the last Friday of Ramadan. It was first held shortly after the 1979 Iranian Revolution. Marches are held around the world, with the largest in Iran. At the counter-protest on the north bank of the River Thames, a range of different groups gathered, including Stop the Hate, a Jewish-led group set up to campaign against antisemitism, and anti-Iranian regime groups, Lion Guard of Iran and the Free Iran Coalition. Some people waved Israeli flags, and one sign read "Hamas is terrorist". Co-founder of Stop the Hate UK, Itai Galmudy, told the BBC he had advocated for two-and-a-half-years to ban "these hate marches" and he believed "the political pressure finally got to where it needs to be". "Allowing them to still stand in front of us and still spew their hate, even if it's a static protest - that's not something that should be facilitated in our country," said Galmudy. Laleh Tangsiri, from Lion Guard of Iran, said she felt "very disappointed that we are not allowed to march and be a voice for people who are living in terror for 47 years". The home secretary approved a request by the Met for a month-long ban on the annual march, organised by the Islamic Human Rights Commission (IHRC) - a power last used in 2012. There is no law banning static protests, meaning these could go ahead. The Met said its assessment was that a static protest would be easier to police and "prevent the two sides from coming together". Assistant Commissioner Ade Adelekan earlier said while the decision to ban the marches was not taken lightly, "the risk of public disorder was so severe, we did not have any other choice". After the protests, he said "our policing plan worked" and significantly fewer people attend than anticipated. "This shows our decision to apply for the ban was the right one." During 2024's march, 10 people were arrested, the Met said at the time. Additional reporting by Nick Triggle and Simon Jones The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
On the Iran-Turkey border a man sells a service that helps Iranians outside their country keep in touch with loved ones inside. His secret is two phones - one connected to the Iranian phone network and one to the Turkish. It's necessary because international calls into Iran are blocked. Customers outside Iran call his Turkish phone on WhatsApp and he then dials their loved ones on his Iranian mobile. He holds the two together so people desperate to hear from their families inside Iran can speak to them. As he's on the border, the man can connect to both the Turkish and Iranian mobile networks at the same time. It is one of the ways Iranians are circumventing the blocks on internet and phone connections authorities have put in place during the war with the US and Israel - but these services are expensive and patchy. Calling abroad rarely works the first time and calls usually last two or three minutes before cutting out. And BBC Persian has found that, with money transfer fees, it costs about £28 ($38) for a four- or five-minute call. But customers feel it's a price worth paying. Ava (whose name, like the other people quoted in this article, has been changed) was due to get married this week. Her fiance lives in Canada and was due to fly to Tehran for the ceremony before the war brought air travel to an abrupt halt. "I'm paying a huge amount of money to be able to connect to the internet to talk to him right now," she says. Hamid also lives in Tehran and has been desperate to find ways to keep in touch with his wife and other relatives abroad. "In these past days I tried everything just to connect," he says. "The cost didn't matter to me, even though it was a financial burden. I just wanted them to feel a little calmer." He's been using a virtual private network (VPN), which can bypass the restrictions the Iranian authorities have put on the internet, allowing people to message and call abroad. Hamid says the cost of VPNs has "skyrocketed" to around £15 ($20) for a gigabyte of data - a considerable amount given the monthly minimum wage in Iran is only $100 - and that the connection was still "extremely unstable". If the connection cuts out while he is using the VPN, he adds, the data he has bought is gone and cannot be refunded. "Whenever I managed to connect to the internet, even briefly, I would message everyone and ask them to send me their families' phone numbers so I could check on them and send news back," he says. "When I call a mother and mention the name of the child who asked about her, the sound of her laughter and excitement changes my whole world." Negar, who lives in Toronto, Canada, says her family have been managing to make short calls to reassure her they are okay, knowing how anxious she was during the deadly anti-government protests in Iran in January. These have done little to allay her worries. "The worst part of the story is that they are under heavy bombardment, yet they call me and say: 'We're fine, don't worry about us.' That is what is killing me." Shadi lives in Melbourne, in Australia, but her parents' home is in a neighbourhood of Tehran known as "the hornet's nest". It's close to a major oil depot hit on 7 March and other sensitive sites such as the Ministry of Defence. They, too, gather news from relatives and neighbours so it can be passed on to family abroad when they are able to connect, she says. Shadi says her father has stopped going for walks after "black rain" fell on him following the nearby oil depot strike. Zahra lives in Europe and is anxiously staying in touch with her brother in Iran, who uses a VPN to access Telegram. "If he goes offline for more than half an hour or an hour, all kinds of frightening thoughts start running through my mind," she says. Her brother said her family rarely leaves the house given the "terrifying" sounds of fighter jets and explosions. She recalls him saying: "Outside, there are also patrols everywhere, standing at every intersection, staring into your eyes. If they don't like the way you look, they stop you." Being able to work across different platforms and use technical tricks to evade the restrictions has made it hard for less tech-savvy relatives to stay in touch. The only person Pooneh, who lives in London, can contact is her sister - "maybe because she is more comfortable with technology and finds ways to make the call", she explains. "I can't call [my family]," Pooneh adds. "Even this simple thing creates a strange feeling, as if nothing is in my control." Like many, she and her sister have a two-way exchange, the person inside Iran passing on family messages and the one abroad giving updates about the war not available in Iran due to government censorship. "It feels as if each of us is missing part of the story, and we have to piece it together through each other." Additional reporting by the BBC Persian team The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Energy Secretary Ed Miliband has said "if it's necessary to intervene, we will" if people's energy costs surge due to the US-Israel war in Iran. Speaking the BBC's Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg programme, Miliband left the door open to interventions on fuel duty and energy bills if the impact of the Gulf crisis demands it. "We're going to stand by people in this crisis," he said, adding the government was "preparing for all eventualities". Oil and gas prices have surged due to the US-Israel war in Iran and, with no clear indication of how long conflict will continue, economists have warned about the possible impact on the global economy and cost of living. Chancellor Rachel Reeves is expected to offer a support package to households struggling with higher heating oil costs this week. Petrol prices have jumped to an 18-month high, according to motoring organisation the RAC, leading to Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer warning his government "will step in" if fuel companies "try to rip off customers" last week. Shown that the largest chunk of petrol cost at the pump was fuel duty at 38%, Miliband was asked whether the government would maintain the current freeze on fuel duty from September. "With five months to go until September, we'll have to see where we are," he said, adding: "We will stand by the British people in this crisis and we will do what it takes to do that." Last week, Miliband got into a row with petrol retailers after warning them the independent watchdog the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) was keeping a close eye on potential "price gouging" around the current conflict. Petrol retailers labelled the warnings "inflammatory language" and responded by briefly threatening to withdraw from a Downing Street meeting, although they did eventually attend. Asked what evidence he had for suggesting retailers were unfairly pricing fuel, Miliband said CMA findings showed profits remained "persistently high" and price competition between petrol stations was "weak" in December. He said: "There is evidence this market isn't working well...  Some of them [fuel retailers] didn't like it but that's tough because we're going to fight for the British people in this conflict." The energy secretary also said there were recent "bad examples" in the heating oil sector, commonly used in rural areas not connected to the main gas grid - with Reeves' support package expected to be announced early next week. "I don't think these are markets that have been working well, frankly; I think there's a longer term look that needs to be done about how these markets are working," Miliband said. "The thing I learned from previous crisis was the British people expect us to be by their side and no vested interest, no powerful interest, will stand in the way of that." Most people with gas and electric powered heating will still see their energy prices fall for the next three months, following a shake-up of government charges, so any impact of the war will be delayed until the autumn - but bills could rise at that point. "Obviously we are preparing for every eventuality," said Miliband, acknowledging that people were struggling before the Gulf crisis and "cost of living is people's number one priority". "If it's necessary to intervene we will," he said, adding that the scale of any intervention was dependent on what the eventual impact of the conflict was by July. Miliband also dismissed calls from the Conservatives for his government to approve new oil and gas licences in the North Sea, highlighting that the price of gas is set by international markets regardless of whether gas comes from the North Sea or the Middle East. "We are a price taker not a price maker," he said. "There is one lesson from this crisis, and only one in my view for the long term on energy policy, and that is that we need home-grown, clean power that we control." Speaking on the same programme, shadow energy security secretary Claire Coutinho called on the government to "implement my cheap power plan" to reduce bills immediately. The Conservative MP said the "first port of call should be to reduce costs" to people's energy bills, "before we go to the taxpayer again", and said renewables policies championed by successive Tory prime ministers should now be abandoned. She said the Conservative Party "reserves the right" to call for direct government intervention, such as the subsidised system on energy bills in the wake of the Russian invasion of Ukraine implemented by Liz Truss. Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey told Kuenssberg there was a "huge problem with the hike in oil prices, in petrol prices, in energy bills, in mortgage costs, thanks to this illegal and damaging war". Calling for the US and Israel, as well as Iran, to "stop the bombing", he said the "best way" to get the Strait of Hormuz opened is to "deescalate this war" - which would then provide the "most certain way to help families struggling here". Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to read top political analysis, gain insight from across the UK and stay up to speed with the big moments. It'll be delivered straight to your inbox every weekday. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US military has named all six crew members who were killed when their refuelling aircraft crashed in Iraq. The Pentagon said those on board the KC-135 plane were: John Klinner, 33, from Alabama, 31-year-old Ariana Savino from Washington, Ashley Pruitt, 34, from Kentucky, 38-year-old Seth Koval from Indiana, and Ohio natives Curtis Angst, 30, and Tyler Simmons, 28. The first three were US Air Force personnel, and the latter three served in the National Guard. The US military previously said neither hostile nor friendly fire were involved in the loss of the plane, which had been involved in US operations against Iran. The aircraft had been on a combat mission when it went down over western Iraq and was one of two planes involved in the incident. The second landed safely. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth hailed the aircraft's crew members as "American heroes". US officials told CBS News, the BBC's US partner, that the incident may have involved a midair collision, but said they were still investigating the cause of the crash. US Central Command, which is responsible for operations in the Middle East region, earlier described the crash as happening over friendly airspace. An Iraqi intelligence source told CBS the first plane went down near Turaibil, located on the Iraqi-Jordanian border. Pro-Iranian militias operate in western Iraq. Iran's military claimed on state TV that an allied group had targeted the plane with a missile. Thursday's crash brings the official US military death toll in the US-Israel war with Iran, which began a fortnight ago, to 13. Six more soldiers have been killed in Kuwait and another in Saudi Arabia. To date, the US military has lost at least four aircraft during the war, which began with US and Israeli launching air strikes on Iran, including one that killed its Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. In early March, three F-15 fighter jets were shot down in "an apparent friendly fire incident" over Kuwait, officials said. All six crew members were able to safely eject. Boeing manufactured the KC-135 Stratotanker for the US military in the 1950s and early 1960s. It has been a backbone to the US military's air refuelling fleet, and allows combat aircraft to carry out longer missions without needing to land. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"You just realise that this man, he's just like a little angel, like God's angel really. He's so kind," says Mandy Scott Johnson. It's high praise for anyone, but perhaps not what you'd expect for a coffee seller in a park. Customers of Thirst for All, a coffee stand in Crane Park in Twickenham, west London, say its owner - Diaco Yari - is a shining light in their local community. Diaco, who came to the UK from Iran nine years ago, feels the same about his customers, and was bowled over when they Crowdfunded to support him after he was assaulted and robbed for his takings a few weeks ago. To make the attack worse, it took place on Diaco's birthday in February, and left him with a broken tooth. His customers, including one who credits Diaco for actually saving his life, were horrified at what had happened, and raised £3,000 to replace his takings and help him set up security systems. Mandy sits beside the cafe caravan with a coffee and is accompanied by her curly grey-haired canine friend, Walter. They (well, mainly Mandy) set up the Crowdfunder to help Diaco. "He can now see his value and his worth and I think that's so important to a human being," she said. "I just wish him so well because he is so important to us all you know, especially Walter!" For Diaco, the community have provided a home away from home. Back in Iran, he says his cousin is recovering after being shot during recent demonstrations. He has had only sporadic contact with his family for months and says there is daily uncertainty and fear since the US and Israel launched attacks on Iran. In Iran, Diaco says he worked in the television industry, making content that was critical of the regime. Diaco described it as being "a voice for the people who want to have their freedom". But, nine years ago he was to leave that, and his family, behind. He describes his customers in Crane Park as family now, and in one case, even calls one customer "Dad". Peter Lund and his late wife Andrea informally "adopted" Diaco when they grew to know him and love him. "My wife used to come here, she had a mobility scooter because she was very disabled and was quite ill," Peter explains, holding back tears. "She adopted Diaco as a son because his family were in Iran, she called him a son, so he started calling me Dad. I just met so many people here since, the dog walkers are all brilliant." After Andrea died in September, Diaco helped carry her coffin at her funeral. It was his way to give back to the community, and to the woman who had supported him so much. "You know [the customers] give me that confidence to be strong," Diaco said. "They tell me: 'It's going to be OK - good things can happen - it just maybe takes a little bit time.' "Everyone is talking to me you know, when I'm sad, they are coming and giving me a hug." For Brian Theobold, Diaco is quite literally a lifesaver. While out walking his dog Ethel beside the river, she unexpectedly fell in. Brian panicked and jumped in after her. Brian can smile about it now, but when he tells the story, it's clear it was a traumatic moment. "Well Ethel only has one eye," Brian explained. "I saw her on the edge of the bank, she put her foot down and disappeared in the water. I jumped in after her. Then Diaco stripped down to his underpants, jumped in, got his arms around my legs and pushed me up and two blokes pulled me out." It's not what anyone would expect a barista to do, and Brian can still hardly believe it himself: "He is a fantastic guy. He does everything for you," he said. Despite the incredible connection between Diaco and his local community, the future is not certain for him, his customers explained. A change in land ownership has raised questions over his ability to keep his cafe caravan business there. "If we lost this caravan for any reason I'd be absolutely devastated," Peter said. "We cannot lose him. Everybody is worried about it. You know you just come here, you have a chat with him, he talks about his family you can talk to him about anything. And he brings everybody together." The customers of Thirst for All say they will once again come together to save Diaco, if it is needed. For Diaco, the support is everything, and he says this piece of west London is "a little bit of heaven". "It's lovely, it's community, yes, it's love, really it's love." Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The woman, who was in her 30s, was a passenger in one of the vehicles and she died at the scene. A man and a boy are arrested on suspicion of murder after Eghosa Ogbebor was fatally shot. The new timetable begins on 17 May with some trains re-introduced and new services operating. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Palestinian armed group Hamas has called on Iran to stop attacking Gulf states, in a rare appeal to its key ally. The Tehran-backed group urged its "brothers in Iran to avoid targeting neighbouring countries", saying in a statement that all regional nations should co-operate "to preserve the bonds of brotherhood". At the same time, Hamas, which runs Gaza, affirmed Tehran's right to defend itself against attacks by the US and Israel, which are continuing to strike Iran. The Iranian authorities have said their own retaliatory strikes target "American installations" on Gulf soil rather than the neighbours themselves - but many attacks have hit civilian infrastructure. Hamas said on Saturday that it had been following the war in the region with "deep concern". It called upon "all states and international organisations to work towards halting [the war] immediately". Iran has not publicly commented on Hamas's statement. Tehran's retaliatory drone and missile strikes have been felt by many of its Gulf neighbours over the past two weeks. At least 18 people have been killed across the region so far, most of them security personnel or foreign workers. Six people have been killed in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and another six in Kuwait, while Oman, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain have all reported two deaths each. Iran is Hamas's biggest backer in terms of funding, weapons and political support. The Palestinian group has previously condemned as a "heinous crime" the assassination of Iran's Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei in joint US-Israeli strikes on the first day of the war on 28 February. Hamas is a member of Iran's "axis of resistance" - a loose coalition aimed at combating US and Israeli influence. Turkey and Qatar - which have recently come under Iranian attacks - also provide significant financial and political support to Hamas. The group fought a devastating war against Israel in the Gaza Strip for more than two years. A US-imposed ceasefire came into effect last October and negotiations continue over the later phases of the deal. Israel and Hamas have accused each other of near-daily violations of the ceasefire agreement. The Hamas-run health ministry said 649 people had been killed in Gaza since the ceasefire came into effect. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
More US Marines and warships are being deployed to the Middle East, two officials confirmed to CBS News, the BBC's US partner. The officials said the reinforcements were to come from an amphibious ready group and its Marine expeditionary unit, with one official adding that the group would be led by the Japan-based USS Tripoli, an amphibious assault ship. The unit headed by the USS Tripoli typically consists of around 5,000 sailors and Marines distributed across several warships. The development comes as President Donald Trump said US forces had "totally obliterated" Iranian military infrastructure on Kharg Island in the Strait of Hormuz, a critical waterway for global oil shipping. Retaliatory Iranian strikes targeting Israel and US military bases across the Middle East have disrupted major hubs for international air travel and caused the price of oil to soar. Asked when the US Navy would start escorting tankers through the Strait of Hormuz, Trump told reporters on Friday: "It will happen soon." The Wall Street Journal, which first reported the movement of US personnel, also reported that the request for reinforcements was made by US Central Command, the part of the US military responsible for the Middle East, and approved by Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth. The BBC has approached the US military and the Pentagon for comment, though future troop movements are usually not confirmed publicly. The US is also relocating parts of a missile defence system installed in South Korea to the Middle East, according to officials cited by the Washington Post and South Korean news outlets. Trump earlier said Iran would be hit "very hard" over the coming week, adding that the war with Iran would be over when "I feel it in my bones". Hegseth also said the US military would show "no mercy for our enemies". The Pentagon has said it had already struck 6,000 Iranian targets during the first two weeks of conflict, which began when the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February, killing Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Iran's new supreme leader - and son of the former leader - 56-year-old Mojtaba Khamenei said Tehran would continue to block the Strait of Hormuz in his first public address on Thursday. In a statement read out by a newsreader on Iranian state TV, he vowed to "avenge the blood" of Iranians killed in the war with the US and Israel, and warned neighbouring countries to stop hosting US bases. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
People across south-east England have claimed that heating oil suppliers are engaging in "unfair" practices. Maria Norcott, from Tonbridge in Kent, contacted BBC Your Voice to say she had paid up front for heating oil just before war broke out in the Middle East. But the 66-year-old said after fighting started her supplier cancelled the delivery and told her she needed either to request a refund or repurchase at a massively inflated price. UK and Ireland Fuel Distributors Association (UKIFDA) said wholesale prices were "moving quickly" because of the Iran and US-Israel conflict. "Because distributors buy almost daily, these shifts are reflected quickly in customer prices." "We have spoken to many distributors who, despite the very large price swings and increased demand, are honouring orders as quickly as they can," UKIFDA added. Norcott, who is retired, told the BBC her supplier was not answering the phone and ignoring her emails. "They should honour their agreement," she said. "It is only fair." Norcott said people would probably pay the higher fees as they would be "desperate". "We're low on oil," she added. "That's our heating, our hot water - everything". Since speaking to the BBC, Norcott said her supplier had been in touch and told her it would honour her original contract. David Knight, who lives near Charlwood in Surrey, said his supplier cancelled a prepaid contract for heating oil shortly after the war broke out. He told BBC Radio Surrey the company then tried to charge him double for the same delivery. "It's price gouging - simple as that," Knight said. "We don't have a choice [but to buy heating oil]," he added. "There is nothing we can do." Knight said that, while there was a contract clause that allowed this, it was unfairly rigged as price drops were not passed on to customers. "There's no projection in the system," Knight continued. "It does not benefit consumers [and] favours suppliers". Since speaking to the BBC, he said his supplier had agreed to honour the contract at the original price. Andrew Griffith, MP for Arundel and South Downs, said he had heard examples of his constituents having booked heating oil orders cancelled. "These are often the most vulnerable people, living often on their own and far away from the town," he told BBC Radio Sussex. "I don't want to tar every business with the same brush by any means, but there is some profiteering." The Conservative politician called on the government to create a price comparison website for heating oil so consumers could shop around. He pointed out heating oil prices also lacked a price cap, in contrast to electricity. Energy Secretary Ed Miliband told the BBC on Friday the government would "not tolerate" profiteering from the conflict. He added the competition watchdog was primed to step in to stop "rip-offs". Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook or X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Stephanie Baker had been celebrating her birthday with friends at a bar on Palm Jumeirah - Dubai's iconic man-made palm-shaped island lined with luxury hotels and beach clubs. But as the group stepped outside to head to another nearby venue, something unusual streaked across the night sky. Moments later, debris from a drone struck the five-star Fairmont hotel - Baker and her friends were standing right across the street. "We all were scared," she says. "To see something like that was unexpected." Baker, a British real estate consultant who moved to the city a year ago, says she always viewed Dubai as one of the safest places in the region. Yet after two weeks of missile and drone attacks linked to the Iran conflict, she says she has no plans to leave. "If anything, the way the situation has been handled makes me feel more secure," she says. Dubai is home to millions of expats like Baker from different countries, including 240,000 Britons. Emirati citizens make up only 10% of the population. For decades, the city has cultivated an image of stability and safety in a volatile region. Its skyline of glass towers, tax-free salaries and reputation for personal security have helped it become the Middle East's booming business and tourism hub - a place where people from across the world arrive hoping to build a better life. Conflicts have reshaped much of the region in recent years, but Dubai has largely remained untouched.  That image is now being tested. According to United Arab Emirates (UAE) authorities, since the start of Iran's attacks, UAE air defences have dealt with 285 ballistic missiles, 15 cruise missiles, and 1,567 drones. Officials say that more than 90% were intercepted and destroyed. But some debris has fallen across parts of Dubai, including major residential areas and close to the city's airport. Images of fragments striking an upmarket tall residential building, a luxury hotel and the airport have circulated widely online. To date, six people have been killed and 141 injured across the UAE, according to authorities in the country. The BBC has spoken to more than 20 residents, some of whom have lived in Dubai for decades and others who arrived more recently. Most say they are shocked by the events of recent days. But nearly all say they have no plans to leave. "This is the first time we are seeing something like this," says Eti Bhasin, an Indian expat working in her family business - who has lived all her life in Dubai. "Dubai has grown phenomenally into a massive city. But we have faith in the authorities. This is my home. We stand by it." For some residents, the past two weeks have been worrying. Adam Callow, his wife and their two young sons moved to Dubai from the UK in 2024, drawn in part by the city's reputation for safety. The family slept in one room during the first few days of the war as the sound of bangs echoed around the city; the children were too afraid to sleep beside windows. "The authorities are doing enough for us to stay and make us feel safe, but we also feel unsettled," Callow says. "The concern is whether this becomes the new normal." The rise of Dubai, where I am based for work, from a small Gulf trading port to a global destination has been built on connectivity. Dubai International Airport - the world's busiest for international passengers - handled nearly 90 million travellers last year. Thousands of flights have been cancelled since the conflict began, bringing one of the region's busiest travel hubs to a halt. In recent days, temporary operations have resumed, with Emirates operating a reduced flight schedule while working to restore full network operations. Such disruption comes at a busy time of year for visitors, before the intense summer heat bears down, and the knock-on impact is clear. The country is now seeing scores of flight and hotel cancellations from those who want to stay away. Rooms in some plush hotels are going for a fraction of their usual cost. "Unfortunately, we are seeing cancellations all the way until May," says Dr Naim Maadad, founder and chief executive of Gates Hospitality. He is an Australian expat and has been a Dubai resident for more than two decades. "When the first quarter starts badly, the rest of the year becomes a race to catch up." Many would-be visitors are attracted to Dubai's image of a luxurious lifestyle: influencers posting videos online of rooftop pools and supercars parked outside five-star hotels, and tourists sunbathing on private beaches. But behind that image lies a different reality. The city's opportunities come with stark contrasts. While Dubai's glossy image abounds online, many of the migrant workers who help power the economy here earn modest wages and live in shared accommodation on the outskirts of the city. The UAE's workforce is overwhelmingly foreign - South Asians alone account for more than half the city's rapidly expanding population, often working in construction, logistics and delivery services. For many, the war has changed little about daily life. Hamza, a delivery driver from Pakistan, says orders increased in the first few days of the war as more people stayed indoors. "There is some fear when we hear explosions or see debris falling," he says. "But I cannot stop working. "My family back home depends on me. I don't have the luxury of staying home out of fear." Rights groups have long raised concerns about the treatment and living conditions of some low-paid workers in the Gulf, including issues around working conditions and employer sponsorship rules. While most residents including Hamza tell me they intend to stay, a few who managed to find a flight have decided to leave. One airline worker, who asked not to be named, tells me she flew back to Melbourne in Australia earlier this week. "I was getting really anxious hearing constant explosions every day," she says. "It felt safer to leave for now and come back once the situation stabilises." But, she adds, she still plans to return. At a time when many Western countries are tightening immigration policies and debating the impact of migration, Dubai represents a different model. The Emirate has positioned itself as a magnet for global talent and the wealthy, seeing an influx of millionaires since the pandemic. And for ambitious professionals from developing countries - whether an Indian engineer, Egyptian doctor or a Filipino nurse - securing visas to work can be a lot easier in Dubai than in Europe or North America, sometimes commanding higher salaries. Investigations by international media and law-enforcement agencies have previously highlighted how some suspected organised-crime figures have been based in Dubai, though cooperation on extradition between the UAE and several countries has increased in recent years. With the city's greatest appeal having always been its image as a stable oasis in a turbulent region, is this brand now forever threatened? Christopher Davidson, a Middle East political economy expert who has written extensively about the UAE, believes the attacks may dent Dubai's appeal in the short term. "But the fundamentals - infrastructure, regulation, weather and geography - remain unchanged," he says. "In the long term its appeal will remain intact." Authorities have received praise from residents and businesses issuing daily updates about the attacks and sending regular mobile alerts warning of possible strikes. President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed has reassured residents the country will protect them, while warning that the UAE is "no easy prey" for those threatening its security. Senior leaders have also made public appearances in Dubai, signalling that life continues. However, public criticism of the government is uncommon in the UAE, where laws place restrictions on speech that is seen as undermining or criticising the state or its leadership. Authorities have warned that sharing unverified footage of the conflict online could lead to heavy fines or imprisonment. On Thursday, a 60-year-old British man was charged in Dubai after allegedly filming Iranian missiles over the city. After a few days of unusually quiet streets, traffic and crowds have returned to a normal pace. Analysts say the long-term impact on Dubai and the UAE will depend on how the conflict unfolds. "A weakened Iran could enhance the UAE's appeal even further," says Davidson. But if the regime survives, tensions with its Gulf neighbours may increase, an investment banker told me. "That's a concern. If any of the banks or financial institutions get hit then that could impact the sentiment for businesses," he says. On Wednesday, the Iranian military threatened to target economic and banking interests linked to the US ‌and Israel in the region, after an Iranian bank was attacked. Many financial firms in Dubai then asked staff to evacuate their offices. For now, most residents in Dubai remain cautious but hopeful. They highlight that the city has weathered crises before - from the global financial crash of 2008 to the pandemic in 2020 - and emerged stronger. "Dubai always bounces back quickly," says Maadad. "Resilience is part of the UAE's DNA." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"This is Israel's war. This is not the United States' war." The video was posted to YouTube less than two days after the US and Israel began their most recent attacks on Iran. It's been viewed more than two million times. But it wasn't made by an anti-Trump activist or critic of the president. The monologue came from one of the most influential voices on the right of American politics: former Fox News host Tucker Carlson. "Countries become less free during war, a spirit of violence descends and people change fast," said Carlson, a long-time supporter of Donald Trump, who reportedly met the US president several times last month in an attempt to dissuade him from ordering military action. "You can feel on people the bloodlust, the hate, and it accelerates." Carlson's advice was clear: "Get out right away. It's just that simple. Of course, it's also incredibly complicated, but the first step is deciding that we're leaving." While many of Trump's most fervent supporters back the current military action, polls indicate that one in four Republicans take the opposite view. This debate is the clearest indication yet of splits in the coalition - an "island of misfit toys" as one Republican operative dubbed it – that brought Trump back to the White House. Arguments over the president's "America First" agenda - and who best supports it - have been raging for months. But it is the war in Iran that has crystalised infighting which, some insiders worry, could hurt Republicans in November's midterm elections. It's common for US presidents to get a boost in popularity in the early stages of military action, as patriotism surges and people "rally round the flag". Not this time. Trump's net approval ratings, which have been underwater for a year, have hardly budged since the war began, according to a polling average compiled by RealClearPolitics. Several polls conducted since the bombing indicate that a majority of Americans disapprove of the military action. In an NBC News survey, for instance, 54% disagree with how the president has handled Iran. That divide breaks down along party lines, with 89% of Democrats opposed and 77% of Republicans in favour. But look closer, and there are splits apparent on the right. Nine out of 10 Republicans that self-identify as "Maga" (Make America Great Again) support the war, according to NBC. These are Trump's ride-or-die supporters, the type of people who show up to his rallies wearing red hats and almost always support his agenda. The same poll indicated that Republicans who don't call themselves Maga are much more sceptical about the war – just over half said they approved, and more than a third say they oppose it. "The generation that the grassroots is composed of are a lot of people who went to Iraq, went to Afghanistan," says Vish Burra, a Republican activist from New York City who worked for disgraced former Congressman George Santos and Maga-world media outlets. "Once they did their tour in this kind of fruitless war effort... they come back, they see their towns hollowed out and the factories are gone and opioids have taken over." Opposition to the war is likely to intensify if Trump sends troops on the ground, another poll found. A Quinnipiac poll, conducted last weekend, found that, while 85% of Republicans support military action in Iran, 52% of the party's supporters would oppose sending ground forces. Some insiders think Trump may be able to navigate the political danger. Matt Wylie, a Republican consultant based in South Carolina, says that, despite the splits, military action could bolster Trump's support among traditional Republicans - a category that overlaps with both the Maga and non-Maga wings of the party. "They still view America as a beacon of hope for freedom seeking people around the world - and that role carries responsibility: to defend our allies, protect free nations, and stand firm when tyranny threatens peace," he says. But the contingent that disagrees with the president has some powerful voices, including Carlson, podcaster Joe Rogan - who called the Iran war "so insane" - and Marjorie Taylor Greene, the former congresswoman from Georgia. Greene broke with Trump last year in a furious spat that ended in her resignation. "We voted for no more foreign wars, no more regime change," she wrote on X last weekend, one of a flurry of anti-war posts she has been cranking out. "Trump has betrayed his campaign promises of no more foreign wars." Greene and Carlson have a few allies in public office, such as Republican Congressman Thomas Massie of Kentucky, who supported a failed measure last week that would have given Congress a veto on the war. But they wield more sway online, among voters who regard themselves as "real Maga": politically disaffected people drawn to Trump by the ideas he promoted on the campaign trail, but who are now lukewarm about the man himself. One influencer who proudly put a drawing of herself in a red hat on her X profile put their views succinctly: "I dont [sic] remember voting to 'Free Iran'. I voted to Make America Great Again." On X and other social platforms, posts have highlighted past anti-war statements made by Trump and his advisers. "You're not going to have a war with me and you're not going to have a third world war with me," Trump told a crowd in New York City, just days before the 2024 election. And last October, Vice-President JD Vance recounted a conversation with conservative activist Charlie Kirk prior to the latter's assassination. Vance credited Kirk as one of the reasons why Trump "never got the United States into a protracted military conflict, and never lost a single American in a Middle Eastern conflict". Whether the conflict is "protracted" remains to be seen. But it is the most significant military operation under Trump to date. At least 13 Americans have been killed so far, including six in a plane crash in Iraq on Thursday. There have been casualties across Israel and Gulf countries. Hundreds of people have been killed in Lebanon as Israel exchanges fire with Hezbollah, and Iran has reported that more than 1,300 people have been killed. Vish Burra, the Republican activist, contrasts what he calls "grassroots Maga", which he describes as non-interventionist, with the Republican donor class, which he paints as pro-war and pro-Israel. But his own story points to a deeper rift on the American right, where anti-Israel sentiment has in some cases tipped over into antisemitism. Burra was sacked from the right-wing One America News network for posting an AI-generated video showing cockroaches in a room with a Star of David on the door. He has said he did not mean to be antisemitic. Others who share his views on Iran care less about appearing racist or antisemitic – including Nick Fuentes, a 27-year-old livestreamer. Online, he sarcastically opines on current events and makes comments like: "Jews are running society, women need to shut the [expletive] up, blacks need to be imprisoned for the most part, and we would live in paradise." For years Fuentes, who did not respond to our interview requests, sniped at the Republican establishment from the sidelines. But the assassination of Kirk - a towering figure on the US right - and wider discontent about issues including the economy and the Epstein files created a power vacuum. Carlson invited Fuentes to his studio last October for a mostly friendly chat in which Fuentes toned down his more extreme views. It kicked off a huge debate on the right over the limits of their movement. Now the extremists are trying to capitalise on much wider opposition to an unpopular war. They make up just one tiny slice of opposition and are very loud online, but numerically small in comparison to voters of both parties and independents who oppose the war for various reasons. But in the background, there is evidence to indicate that extreme views are spreading. Rod Dreher, a conservative writer and friend of Vance, says that during a recent trip to the US capital he took an informal poll of young men working in politics and asked them how much of their cohort could be classed as groypers - a term used for Fuentes's followers. "The number I kept getting was 30 to 40%," he said. "And this really shocked me." Vance has publicly criticised the extremists, at one point using a scatological insult against Fuentes during an interview with website Unherd. But Dreher says he's dismayed that Vance hasn't been more forceful in his denunciations. "These people cannot be given a space within the broader mainstream conservative movement," Dreher told the BBC. Trump still remains, unsurprisingly, the most powerful force in the Republican Party, and his endorsement is being coveted by Republicans hoping to win congressional midterm primaries that have already started in some states. During previous bombing campaigns, stretching back to Trump's first term, online opposition on the right quieted after the fighting stopped. David Azerrad, a political science professor at conservative Hillsdale College, said that "for now, I think the president can continue to ignore the nattering nabobs". But Trump is in the midst of a complicated and potentially protracted foreign conflict, and experts agree that everything depends on how long the war lasts and the effects it has on the US economy - particularly oil prices. Support could ebb, says political strategist Matt Wiley, "especially if this drags on for months, if Trump puts troops on the ground, if more American lives are lost". The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Like many exiled Iranian Kurds, Shaho Bloori, 53, hears the call of home from both the living and the dead. Two of his sisters remain in Iran, and 18 of his relatives lie buried there, killed by the regime. That includes one of his brothers, who he tells us is "forever young" - a protest singer, executed at the age of 21. It wasn't enough for Iran's Islamic Revolution Guard Corps to hang him, he says, and riddle his body with bullets, they heaped more suffering on his mother, after his death. "When she went to wash his body [for burial], there were 16 bullet holes," he says.  "They told her: 'You must not cry. If you do, we will not let you clean him and bury him.'" He wants justice not revenge if the regime falls. There is no sign of that yet. "We must stop the hanging," he says. "Even if someone is guilty of hanging my brother, I don't want them to be executed. We need freedom, not another regime like the Islamic regime." If Iranian Kurdish fighters based in Iraq do cross the border into western Iran - to open a new front against the Islamic Republic - his first mission will be to honour those who are gone. "I will go to my mother's grave, then my fathers, and my brothers," he says. "I will go to all the friends and family I will never see again, and lay flowers and tell them: 'I remember you always, and I cry for you.'" At this, he is silenced by his grief and his memories. We meet Bloori, 53, in northern Iraq, at a tented camp for Iranian Kurds where he is training a new generation of Peshmerga – "those who face death". He's perched on a boulder under a warm spring sun. Two Peshmerga come to stand guard behind him. The commander - who is white haired and softly spoken - belongs to a small dissident group called Komala of the Toilers of Kurdistan. It's part of an alliance of Iranian Kurdish organisations formed recently to oppose the regime. Thousands of fighters are "organised in the mountains, and ready to go home", Cdr Bloori tells us, adding "that will be soon". US President Donald Trump, by contrast, has publicly blown hot and then cold on the idea of the Iranian Kurds joining the US and Israel's war against Iran. For now, it looks unlikely. The Kurds are stateless, and spread mainly across four countries - Iraq, Iran, Syria and Turkey. They are the fourth largest ethnic group in the Middle East, and have a shared history of persecution, and of internal divisions. The authorities in this autonomous region are Iraqi Kurds, who desperately want to stay out of the war next door. They also want to keep Iranian Kurdish fighters away from the cameras. But we managed to reach the camp on our second attempt. It's a collection of tents ringed by mountain peaks, some still capped with snow – a place of beauty, and a target for Tehran. We are not identifying the location. Days before our visit there were two drone strikes about a kilometre away, causing injuries but no deaths. The last part of our journey is a climb up a stony hillside. It's hard going at first - the altitude and our body armour making it difficult to breathe. As we arrive around two dozen Peshmerga - men and women - line up to greet us, chanting and raising their Kalashnikovs in the air. The slogan "Woman, life, freedom" echoes through the mountains – an old Kurdish demand adopted by recent protest movements in Iran. More Peshmerga are dotted around on the hilltops standing sentry – a low-tech early warning system for incoming drones. On one peak a lone fighter scans the horizon, his dog by his side. We carry drone detection equipment with us here - as we do in war zones like Ukraine. It should give us an early warning if a drone is headed our way, and some time to look for cover. Our safety adviser gives us clear advice - "if there's nowhere to shelter, get down on your belt buckle". A senior Komala party official, Amjad Hossein Panahi, is visiting the fighters. He's also a Peshmerga, along with his wife. He tells us he's been waiting to see the fall of the regime since its birth 47 years ago, but air strikes alone won't bring it down. "Bombing is weakening the regime, but it's a big country and this is not enough," he says. "Ground forces must intervene, and the Kurds can play an important role in this." First, he wants to see a no-fly zone imposed by the US. But with rising oil prices, hurting Americans (and many others) at the petrol pumps, how long will the US remain in the fight? "I don't trust Trump," he replies bluntly. "I feel he may decide to stop the war. This is my personal view. "But whether or not Trump stops the war, the Islamic Republic is in its final days. It will be brought down, by him or by [Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin] Netanyahu, or by the people." Then we are interrupted when he gets a call with news of an attack of a Komala camp in the city of Sulaymaniyah, near the border with Iran. "We have to leave this place now," he warns. "The Iranians are attacking with drones.  They could attack here." He shouts to the Peshmerga who are gathered around. "Spread out, spread out. Drones and ballistic missiles are coming. Hurry!" The fighters scatter and so do we. We wait for a while, but the skies remain clear. We leave the Peshmerga in position in the mountains, just as they have been for decades. If they do enter the war - at some point - it could be very costly for them, and threaten the fragile stability of Iraq. Additional reporting by Wietske Burema, Matthew Goddard and Bizhar Shareef The US state department says a suspect in her abduction has ties to an Iran-backed militia group, Kataib Hezbollah. The aircraft was on a combat mission as part of ongoing US operations against Iran when it crashed in western Iraq on Thursday. Oil worker Ross Slater said the drones landed metres from his accommodation but failed to explode The US Central Command says all six crew members died after a refuelling aircraft went down over western Iraq. The echoes between the conflicts are certainly there but there are also profound differences. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has said he believes that Vladimir Putin and Russia are helping Iran "a bit" amid the conflict with the US and Israel. In an interview with Fox News, Trump acknowledged that the US also helps Ukrainian forces as they battle with Russian forces. According to some US media reports, Russia has been sharing the location of US military forces with Iran that could help guide missile and drone attacks across the Middle East. On Thursday, US Special Envoy for the Middle East Steve Witkoff said that Russia's government had assured the Trump administration that it was not providing intelligence to the Iranian government in Tehran. Asked by Fox about the potential of Russian intelligence being shared with Iran, Trump said that "I think he [Putin] may be helping them a bit, yeah". "He probably thinks we're helping Ukraine," Trump added. "They do it, and we do it." Citing US officials and a former Russian intelligence officer, the Wall Street Journal last week reported that the information being shared includes the coordinates of US military ships and aircraft that could be used for targeting by Iran. Iran has limited satellite capabilities of its own, meaning that any data or locations derived by Russian satellites could fill significant gaps in Iranian intelligence gathering. Trump has previously been dismissive of the potential impact that Russian intelligence could have on the conflict. "If they are, they're not doing a very good job," Trump told reporters on Air Force One on 7 March. "Iran is not doing too well." The president's comments to Fox come after the US moved to temporarily lift sanctions on Russian oil, as Trump tries to contain soaring oil prices with the conflict entering its third week. While US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent initially said that the "narrowly tailored, short-term measure" would not provide "significant financial benefit" to Moscow, he later backtracked, telling Sky News it was "an inevitability" and "unfortunate". The Kremlin welcomed the move, with special envoy Kirill Dmitriev saying in a statement that "the United States is effectively acknowledging the obvious: without Russian oil, the global energy market cannot remain stable". While US intelligence has reportedly been used in Ukraine to help Kyiv with targeting strategic military sites and oil and gas facilities, that assistance was temporarily paused in March last year following tense meetings between US and Ukrainian officials. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A man has travelled to Washington to urge world leaders to help free his mother and her partner, who are imprisoned in Iran. Lindsay and Craig Foreman, from East Sussex, were detained in January 2025 while travelling, and later sentenced to 10 years in prison in what their family called a "sham trial". Joe Bennett told a conference at the McCain Institute on Thursday that the international community must treat their case as "a problem for the Western civilisation and the globe". Speaking on Capitol Hill, he said: "There are days when you don't want to show up, but you have to keep going. It's heartbreaking that in this day and age this is still happening." Bennett, from Folkestone, Kent, previously told the BBC the couple's situation had reached "a terrifying breaking point" following the outbreak of war between Iran and the US and Israel. At the US-UK Transatlantic Conference on Hostage-Taking and Arbitrary Detention on Thursday, he criticised what he described as the UK government's "non-existent" advocacy. He said: "They do not want to be accountable for things that go wrong, they only want to be accountable for when thing goes right. "I know that Keir Starmer will be on the tarmac when they come home if he's still in power to shake their hand but he has never once said their name." Bennett said the family's legal team had recently made a submission to the UN Special Rapporteurs to highlight the serious nature of their plight. He says he hopes to "bring in the weight of international law to elevate the action that could be taken". Bennett told the conference that proposals for a new special envoy gave him limited hope because the role "still has the shackles of the Foreign Office behind it". He said the government's engagement with Tehran had been "very one-dimensional". Bennett said the UK had been slow to learn of the couple's sentencing and claimed the family had been the first to tell officials after the British embassy staff left Tehran. He says consular support offered remotely "doesn't quite" work and officials had not used the communication channels available to the family. The government had shown "no willingness" to speak directly to his parents about efforts to secure their release, he said. Bennett added he hoped the Washington event would strengthen cooperation between countries including the US, Germany and the UK. He said: "We know what happened to my parents is state-sponsored hostage taking, which I can see from the amazing people gathered here, is a world wide problem. "For those who are stuck in Evin, it's further compounded by the dangers of the war. "States need to join together to support each other and to support the families of those left behind." The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office said: "The welfare of British nationals detained in Iran is a priority for this government and continues to be during the current situation in the Middle East. "Craig and Lindsay's sentences are completely appalling and totally unjustifiable, and we will continue to pursue this case relentlessly with the Iranian regime and will do so until we see Craig and Lindsay Foreman safely returned to the UK and reunited with their family. "We continue to provide consular assistance to them and their family." It said that it had long advised British and British-Iranian nationals against travel to Iran due to the risk of arbitrary detention. Follow BBC Kent on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"I don't even think it was his message," an Iranian woman in her 40s told the BBC after her country's new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei gave his first official address in the form of a statement read out on state TV. Having not seen him since he was named leader, some are now casting doubts on who is running the country. "I feel like control of the country is in the hands of the IRGC [Islamic Revolution Guard Corps]," the woman, from Tehran, said. Khamenei, through the conduit of a TV presenter, vowed in his statement on Thursday that Iran would keep the Strait of Hormuz closed to international shipping - choking the supply of a fifth of the world's oil. He also said that his government would "not forgo avenging the blood" of citizens killed since the war with the US and Israel began, saying retaliation so far represented only "a limited portion" of what was to come. He said he had been made aware of his appointment as supreme leader via state TV. But Khamenei has yet to be seen in-person - nor filmed or photographed - since being named as his father's successor. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said, without providing evidence, that Khamenei had been "wounded and likely disfigured" in one of the first air strikes on Tehran that killed Ayatollah Ali Khamenei along with his wife and other son. His lack of visibility was brought up by some of those who spoke to BBC Persian following the broadcast. "It was surprising that he did not issue even a voice memo and raised doubts about his condition," one Tehran resident, in his 30s, said. "To me this message raised more doubts than bringing any clarity about his condition," he added. Another man from Tehran, in his 20s, said: "I still haven't seen him to have an opinion about him. To be honest, we don't know much about him." A third man remarked that he was "not even convinced that he [Mojtaba Khamenei] has written the message himself". Meanwhile, a woman in her 20s from Rasht, in northern Iran, observed acerbically: "Wow, very heartwarming that he didn't even appear on state TV to issue the message." It is still very difficult to contact people inside Iran due to a government-imposed internet blackout, but some are able to connect briefly to the outside world through satellite uplinks. Many of those who do tend to be anti-regime. We have anonymised their comments for their safety. Despite dissent towards the Islamic regime that has run Iran since 1979 being writ large in mass demonstrations that engulfed the country earlier this year, it still has its fervent supporters. Crowds took to the streets of central Tehran on Friday for pro-establishment rallies to mark Quds Day - an annual event established by the Islamic regime to demonstrate support for the Palestinian cause and opposition to Israel. Many of those on the streets held photos of Mojtaba Khamenei. Iranian outlets have since published several photos and videos of officials who appeared among them, including Iranian President Massoud Pezeshkian, Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi, judiciary chief Gholamhossein Mohseni Ejei, and Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council Ali Larijani. Khamenei's message on Thursday also called on Iranians to participate in rallies to help "confront the enemy". BBC Persian and BBC Verify have verified footage showing an explosion in the Iranian capital near the crowd. The Israeli military had earlier issued an evacuation warning for an area close to where rallies were taking place in Tehran. In one video, Mohseni Ejei is seen as giving an interview to state TV when a blast happens nearby, with the crowd chanting "Allahu Akbar" ("God is greatest"). Others who spoke to the BBC felt Khamenei's message meant very little was likely to change in the war that has seen near-constant waves of air strikes. Iran's UN ambassador, Amir Saeid Iravani, said on Tuesday that thousands of civilian sites had been destroyed by the strikes, including schools and housing. The US-based Human Rights Activists in Iran (HRANA) group says nearly 1,800 people have been killed in the conflict, around two-thirds of whom were civilians. "The message was very radical. I think it shows that nothing can be changed from within," a man in his 30s in Tehran said. "I think it was a message that proved in many ways that the Islamic Republic, no matter who its leader is, will always stick to its own beliefs," a man in his 30s in Karaj, a satellite city of Tehran. "So the world should know that it cannot deal with this regime." Another Karaj resident said pointedly: "He's even more worthless than his father." Additional reporting by Tom McArthur The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
There is a new and concerted effort from Israel's military and political leaders to frame the achievements of the Iran war as having changed the Middle East, even without the regime change in Tehran that Israel's prime minister has focused on. Benjamin Netanyahu has spent decades preparing for this showdown with Iran; his long political career is anchored in his vow to defend Israel against its Iranian nemesis. Having seized the chance to wage war directly on the regime, alongside the world's most powerful military, his rhetoric around the war has been extravagant, describing it as "a fateful campaign for our very existence". The Israeli military's chief of staff has called it "an operation to secure our existence and our future in the land of our forefathers for generations to come". One of Netanyahu's former national security advisers has described it as "a golden opportunity to change the direction of the whole Middle East". "This is the culmination of what [Netanyahu] has tried to rebrand as the War of Redemption, which in his mind started on October 7, 2023. And this is - if not the last war - then the big war against Iran," said Neri Zilber, a journalist based in Tel Aviv and a policy advisor to the Israel Policy Forum, a US think tank. "Benjamin Netanyahu is still selling a major victory," he added, pointing out that Israel had continued talking about the potential for regime change long after the Trump administration had stopped. Regime change would deprive many of Israel's regional enemies - like Hezbollah in Lebanon, or Hamas in Gaza – of Iranian funding, training, and weapons, potentially transforming Israel's security. But after assassinating Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamanei in an air strike, and making repeated calls to the Iranian people to use this moment to rise up, Netanyahu has now signalled the war may end with the regime still in place. In his first press conference since the war began, he told Israelis that the bombing campaign had already changed the balance of power in the Middle East in Israel's favour. "We can already say with certainty: this is no longer the same Iran, this is no longer the same Middle East, and this is not the same Israel," he said. Some in Israel will read that as a sign that Israel is being asked to wind up the war, amid signs that spiralling oil prices are putting the US government under pressure to call an end to the conflict. Strong Israeli support for this war rested partly on the idea that it would end repeated campaigns against Iran and its proxy forces across the region. After the last war against Iran in June 2025, Israel's prime minister heralded a "historic victory" that would "stand for generations", saying it had "removed two existential threats" in Iran's nuclear weapons - which Tehran has denied seeking to develop - and its ballistic missiles. Israel had returned to war just eight months later, he said, because Iran was rapidly rebuilding its missile programme, and planning to move it - and its nuclear programme - deep underground. The question Netanyahu faces now is: without regime change in Tehran, how long before the next time? Military officials say the damage to Iran's weapons programmes this time is far deeper than before - with its production sites and leadership targeted alongside missile stocks and launchers. "Some of it is permanent, and some of it is semi-permanent," said Lt Col Nadav Shoshani, spokesman for the Israel Defense Forces (IDF), describing the military objective as removing threats "for a prolonged period of time". Maj Gen Yaakov Amidror, a former Israeli national security adviser and senior fellow at the Jerusalem Institute for Strategy and Security think tank, says that even without Iranians taking to the streets, Israel can achieve its core goals by leaving the regime too weak to threaten it. "If we could achieve regime change, that would change the Middle East. But we know our limitations, we're not a superpower, and we have to be humble in our decisions," he said. The defence correspondent for one of Israel's biggest circulation papers, Yedioth Ahronoth, has said unnamed military officials are reporting early signs of strain within Iran's security apparatus, "including internal tensions within the Revolutionary Guard and isolated cases of desertion". Netanyahu has suggested that, having created the conditions for regime change, Israel could now withdraw and wait for Iran's internal pressures to take their course. But there is a political risk for Netanyahu in leaving the regime intact. Neri Zilber, the analyst, says the danger for Netanyahu is that his grand pronouncements about "total victory" against Iran's network of allies across the region are just empty bombastic statements. "Hamas still controls roughly half of Gaza. Hezbollah is now putting up a much bigger fight than many people here had been led to believe after the ceasefire in 2024, [and] after last June's war against Iran, Israel and the US are back in an even bigger war against Iran," he said. "That's where the danger lies for Netanyahu - that his past promises will come back to haunt him, and even the current campaign, fought at such scale alongside the most powerful military in the world, will not actually bring about the results that he's promised the Israeli public." Israel's unresolved conflicts with Hamas and Hezbollah on its own borders are a sharp reminder of the limitations of military power, even after the dramatic shift in Israel's defence strategy in the wake of the 7 October 2023 Hamas attacks. "We want to be in a position from now on that no beasts can grow on our borders," said Amidror. "We should take pre-emptive wars as something we use whenever we identify on the other side of the border, a beast that is becoming slowly stronger." But launching wars has historically been far easier than ending them here. Israel is currently fighting on a second front against Hezbollah in Lebanon, after the Iran-backed group responded to the killing of Khamenei and joined Iran's attacks on Israel. After decades of repeated wars with Hezbollah, and a fierce campaign in 2024 that left the group weakened, many in Israel see this moment as an opportunity to end the threat on their northern border once and for all. Israeli forces are pushing into southern Lebanon, in what they say is, so far, a defensive operation. But their chief of staff, Lt Gen Eyal Zamir, has said his objective is to disarm Hezbollah, and that what was needed now above all was "persistence and patience". "This will take considerable time," he said, describing the current conflict as "the war of our generation: a critical war, a decisive war [that] will determine our future and our security for many years to come." Senior military officials say privately that a ground invasion across a large swathe of Lebanese territory is among the plans being considered. A key question is whether Israel will continue fighting on this front, even if Washington calls an end to the campaign in Iran. And whether military advantage - whether in Gaza or in Lebanon - can lead to peace without trusted political partners and political agreements. Despite widespread war-weariness after more than two years of constant conflicts, public opinion in Israel has remained strongly in support of this regional war. And Benjamin Netanyahu is widely expected to leverage this moment to redeem his own political legacy, after the security failings that led to the 7 October attacks, and bring forward elections due later this year. The so-called War of Redemption that Netanyahu began in the aftermath of those attacks has already reshaped the Middle East, and brought Israel into direct conflict with its enemy in Tehran. Netanyahu has made a career out of defending against the Iranian threat. He is now facing a new political chapter after this conflict, whether or not that threat remains. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
All six members of a US military refuelling aircraft's crew have now been confirmed dead after it crashed in western Iraq, US Central Command (Centcom) has said. The US initially said it had located four of the deceased crew. It said neither hostile nor friendly fire were involved in the loss of the KC-135 aircraft on Thursday. The tanker had been involved in ongoing US operations against Iran and was one of two aircraft involved in the incident. The second landed safely. The Boeing-manufactured aircraft are capable of refuelling planes midair and play a major role in US military operations. They were used extensively in the first Gulf War to extend the range of fighter jets and bombers. Centcom said the incident occurred at about 14:00 ET (19:00 GMT) on Thursday and that the circumstances of the crash were now under investigation. A search and rescue operation was then launched to locate the remaining two crew members. The US military command unit added that the identities of the personnel who had been killed were being withheld for 24 hours so their next of kin could be notified. Gen Dan Caine, chair of the US Joint Chiefs, told a news conference on Friday that the plane had crashed "while the crew was on a combat mission". US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth hailed the aircraft's crew members as "American heroes", stressing that their "sacrifice will only recommit us to the resolve of this mission". The KC-135 usually has a crew of at least a pilot, a co-pilot and a boom operator responsible for controlling the refuelling arm of the aircraft. Centcom earlier described the crash as happening over friendly airspace - but this is a region of Iraq where pro-Iranian militias operate. Iran's military claimed on state TV that an allied group had targeted the plane with a missile. Thursday's crash brings the official US military death toll in the US-Israel war with Iran, which began a fortnight ago, to 13. The US military has now lost at least four aircraft during the current war. Earlier this month, three F-15s were shot down in "an apparent friendly fire incident" over Kuwait, officials said. All six crew members were able to safely eject. Boeing manufactured the KC-135 Stratotanker for the US military in the 1950s and early 1960s. It has been a backbone to the US military's air refuelling fleet, and allow combat aircraft to carry out longer missions without needing to land. Separately, Israel's military said on Friday that it had launched a fresh "wide-scale wave of strikes" targeting Iranian infrastructure across Tehran. Explosions were later reported in and near the Iranian capital. It came after the US loosened sanctions on other countries buying Russian oil and petroleum already loaded on vessels at sea to curb the economic impact of the US-Israel war with Iran. Oil prices climbed above $100 (£75) a barrel again on Thursday, while stock markets fell after three more cargo vessels were hit in the Gulf and Iran's new supreme leader vowed to keep blocking the Strait of Hormuz, a vital shipping lane. US President Donald Trump has indicated that the war could end "very soon" since the price of oil shot up, while also suggesting the US could "go further". France's military announced on Friday that a drone had killed a French soldier, who it identified as Staff Sgt Arnaud Frion, and wounded six others at a Kurdish military base in northern Iraq yesterday. It said the soldiers had been stationed at the base to train Iraqi units. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The price of oil rarely makes it into dinner table conversation. But over the last two weeks it has dominated headlines, with huge and unusual rises and falls starting to feel like the new norm. It is currently trading over a third higher than before the conflict began, pushed up by air strikes on shipping and energy infrastructure and the effective closure of the key Strait of Hormuz, a vital waterway that carries a fifth of global oil supplies. There were wild swings in the price on Monday, which was described by the BBC's economics editor Faisal Islam as the most volatile day of oil trading in history. Most of the talk around prices concerns the cost of Brent crude - a widely-used international benchmark for oil. Contracts to buy and sell oil will often use Brent as a reference point, so it has significant influence on global energy costs. The vast majority of oil is traded for delivery at a future date, says Lindsay James, investment strategist at Quilter, and prices are rising now due to concerns about supplies in the months ahead. Before the US and Israeli strikes on Iran, oil had been trading at about $71 a barrel, but prices rose sharply as soon as the conflict began. Comments from world leaders have contributed significantly to price fluctuations. Last week,  the FT carried an ominous warning from Qatar's energy minister, Saad al-Kaabi, who said he expected all oil and gas exporters in the Gulf to stop production within days and this pushed oil prices to a two-year high. When markets reopened after the weekend, they peaked at almost $120 a barrel. But then came reports there could be a huge release of emergency stockpiles co-ordinated by the International Energy Agency. US President Donald Trump also described the war as "very complete, pretty much", raising hopes the conflict would not be drawn-out. In response, the oil price went into freefall and by the end of Monday it had fallen by nearly $30 from the peak seen earlier in the day. Quilter says the dramatic change - in the space of a few hours - was "extraordinary even by the volatile standards of commodities". The world is now experiencing an "energy shock without modern precedent", adds James. Behind the big numbers is a huge amount of practical detail, says former BP boss Lord John Browne, such as getting the right type of oil to the right refinery. "This is not just a speculative activity - it's actually a matter of physical supply of oil, and people are bidding to make sure that they don't run out," he told the BBC. Another key moment came when US Energy Secretary Chris Wright posted on X that the US had successfully escorted an oil tanker through the Strait of Hormuz. At one point on Tuesday, the benchmark price plunged to $82 per barrel. However, it soon jumped back to $86 after the post disappeared from his profile. The White House later confirmed the social media post was wrong -  the US Navy had not escorted any tankers through the crucial Gulf passage. On Wednesday, the IEA announced dozens of countries had agreed to release a record amount of oil from their emergency reserves. Prices fell after the announcement, but they've since risen back above $100 a barrel. Bill Farren-Price, senior research fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, said the release is a "sticking plaster on a much bigger problem". He said the market had already priced the move in, and then further ship attacks sent the price up again. "Inevitably the price reaction is going to continue until we see some sort of off-ramp for this conflict and that could be very, very complicated and drawn out," he adds. There is also a shortage of refining capacity meaning the release is not a magic switch to increase the flow of refined products like petrol and jet fuel. The releasing of the reserves is more of an attempt to boost confidence by signalling to markets that governments have recognised the threats and are acting  to address them. In short, it may not help oil prices fall, but it may stop them climbing as much as they otherwise would have done. We are not yet two weeks into the war between the US, Israel and Iran. We do not know how long the conflict will last, or how significant its impact will be. People trading oil "can't see the real direction", says Lord Browne. They do not know how long the Strait of Hormuz will be effectively closed, or whether the strategic releases of oil reserves agreed by the IEA will actually take place. "I think most people will look at all this and say 'show me what's really happening and I'll tell you what the price is going to be'," he adds. Jane Foley, head of FX Strategy at Rabobank, says the market is "really quite wary" about continued disruption. "From the market's perspective it is all about that strait... and right now, Iran is in control of that," she told the BBC. One thing is clear - movements this month have exposed just how much the trade of one of our most valuable commodities depends on transit through a small strait of water in a very volatile, dangerous part of the world. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
British holidaymakers have told the BBC they are stranded abroad after their flights were cancelled when the US-Israeli war with Iran broke out. Airspace remains severely restricted following missile strikes across the Middle East meaning commercial flights through major hub airports have been grounded. Some British travellers are trapped in far-flung locations facing bills for accommodation, food and essentials which may not be covered by their travel insurance. Andrea Pendrey and her partner were on holiday in the Maldives before she was due to begin treatment for breast cancer. They were due to fly back on Sunday 1 March - hours after the war broke out - and arrived at the airport to find their flight cancelled. "Emirates just told us we need to find a room, at our own cost and the airport was filling up with more and more people," says Andrea. They managed to find a resort but it has come at a huge financial cost. "We reckon we'll have forked out an extra £12,000 by the time we leave," Andrea says. Her partner lost his job before the holiday. "The money is stressing me out," she adds. "We've just had to put it on a credit card." There is no standard definition of what travel insurance providers must cover in these situations so any claim for additional expenses will depend on the wording of each policy. Extra compensation is only payable when an airline is at fault, which is not the case with travel difficulties caused by the current conflict. Andrea's treatment was due to start last Thursday in the UK. "I'm trying not to think about it too much. I need to get home for my chemo. It's not helping being here," she says. The couple spent hours every day for almost a week trying to rebook onto rescheduled flights but with no luck. Andrea's insurance company eventually classified her as a medical emergency - and they are due to fly back to the UK via Frankfurt on Monday. "Even though this place is paradise, we've been crying and feel really upset," she says. Ashley Jones, 26 and his partner Trang Nguyen, 25, were on a two-week holiday in Ko Samui and Bangkok, Thailand. But he says the outbreak of war "ruined" the last week of their holiday. "We started panicking about how we'd get home and fearing we'd run out of money." The couple from Crawley, West Sussex were due to fly back to the UK on Sunday. But their flight was cancelled. Ashley says he had no alternative but to accept a rescheduled flight as British Airways told him all other flights were "fully booked" until 28 March. They are due to fly in the early hours of Friday but Ashley says he is not certain the flight will go ahead. "It feels dodgy," he says. "I don't want to go via Muscat (the capital of Oman) and have a two-hour layover - it's a war zone," says Ashley. "The UK Foreign Office advises against going to Oman." Ashley says he spoke to his travel insurance company, his airline and travel agent and "they all passed the buck." "We were essentially homeless. Luckily my family had provided some funds to push us through," he says. "But both our families are worried about us travelling to the Middle East." Retirees Debbie and Ardon Rainbird from Northallerton, in North Yorkshire, flew out of Manchester on 17 February for a two-week tour of Sri Lanka. They were due to fly home on Tuesday 3 March through the Qatari capital, Doha. Their flight was cancelled when the conflict started. "Ultimately we've been away for a month when we were supposed to be away for two weeks," says Debbie, 63. They are staying in a basic hotel which costs $160 per night for dinner, bed and breakfast and are handwashing their clothes. There are about 20 people on the same tour "Few of us can find out if we are covered on insurance and only receive auto replies to any questions. We all miss our loved ones and wish to return home," Debbie says. Debbie contracted a respiratory tract infection and has had to pay doctors' fees, while some elderly holidaymakers had to buy medication when they ran out. Despite the stressful situation, she says the group are getting on "really well".  Debbie has been setting a quiz and a fellow traveller has been leading daily Tai Chi sessions. Their tour operator, Distant Journeys, has now secured a charter flight leaving on Sunday night. "The flight hasn't been confirmed and we don't know the time but we are keeping everything crossed," she says. Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The bodies of 84 Iranian sailors killed in a torpedo attack by a US submarine last week in the Indian Ocean are due to be flown home on Friday, Sri Lanka's defence ministry has said. The seamen were among 130 thought to be aboard the Iranian warship, the Iris Dena, when it was sunk on 4 March about 40km (25 miles) from Sri Lanka's southern coastline. A police escort transferred bodies to Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport on Friday morning for the repatriation to Iran, after they were stored in two freezers at Galle National Hospital. Sri Lanka said 32 sailors rescued by its navy after the torpedo attack "will remain in Sri Lanka", according to news agency AFP. A magistrate in the Sri Lankan city of Galle ordered that the 84 bodies should be released to the Iranian embassy. US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said shortly after the sinking that the Iranian warship had died a "quiet death". Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said the US had "perpetrated an atrocity at sea, 2,000 miles away from Iran's shores", adding that "the US will come to bitterly regret precedent it has set". Video released by the US Department of Defense after the incident showed a ship being struck, causing the stern to rise up before exploding. The Iris Dena had been returning from a military exercise hosted by India when it was attacked. Its sinking in international waters came during the current US-Israeli war with Iran and marked a dramatic widening of the conflict. Iran has since launched retaliatory strikes across the Middle East - targeting Gulf countries allied with the US. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Drones, cruise missiles and fighter jets have become a common sight for many sailors stranded on oil tankers and freight ships in the Gulf, after Iran threatened to open fire on any vessels trying to cross the Strait of Hormuz, in response to US-Israeli attacks. In recent days there has been a growing number of reported attacks on ships in the Gulf region, as Iran responded to attacks by the US and Israel by threatening to open fire on any vessels trying to cross the Strait of Hormuz. The Strait is a key artery for shipping, both for energy supplies and vessels carrying other goods. The sudden outbreak of war has left many ships – and their sailors stranded at sea as they watch strikes play out on land around them and overhead. "I have seen Iranian drones and cruise missiles flying at low altitude," says Amir, a Pakistani sailor aboard an oil tanker in the United Arab Emirates that cannot leave the area. "I also hear the sound of fighter jets, but we can't identify which country they belong to." What scares him the most is the thought of an intercepted drone or missile falling on his vessel. Hein, a sailor from Myanmar, sees skirmishes every day. "Just this morning, two fighter jets fired at each other while we were still working," he says. "There's no specific hiding place on the ship for this, and we just had to run inside." We have changed their names to Amir and Hein, along with those of the other sailors at sea and their families, to protect their safety. While it is difficult to get an accurate figure for how many sailors are stranded on ships in the Middle East, Capt Anam Chowdhury, president of the Bangladesh Merchant Marine Officers' Association, estimates that the number is around 20,000. Some are at sea and some are stuck in port, but he says it is difficult to assess which is the more dangerous position. "Inside the port, people might think it's safe, but there have been ships which have been bombarded when they were anchored," he explains. His organisation has tracked at least seven ships it says have been hit by projectiles and damaged in the war so far. He says on 1 March, a sailor was killed on board the Skylark, a tanker registered to the Republic of Palau. Chowdhury says the surviving sailors have been "traumatised" by the attack, during which the engine room caught fire and the crew evacuated. Other mariners agree. Capt M Mansoor Saeed sails oil tankers, and tells BBC News he believes that when it comes to avoiding attack, there is little difference between being at port or sea: "If they want to target my ship they will target it." But, he says, generally large ships can be safer away from the coast. "In heavy weather conditions we always run to open sea, where we have more water and depth to manoeuvre freely. In ports and confined waters, weather can damage the vessel by grounding or hitting the quay walls." The precarious situation has made the families of seafarers burn with worry. Because authorities in Iran have blocked internet and phone networks for most people in Iran, it has been difficult for the family members of sailors to get news about their whereabouts. Although access does sometimes come back, it is unpredictable and usually for short periods. Ali Abbas's son is on a ship at an Iranian port near the Strait of Hormuz. He last spoke to his son several days ago, when he was telling him about a missile attack. His son escaped, but an Indian sailor was wounded. "I have hidden this from my wife and daughter-in-law," he says tearfully. On Tuesday night, there was another severe attack on the port and Ali hasn't been able to talk to his son. "For God's sake, please help me," he says, breaking down with emotion. Ali hopes his son is still alive and well, and communication system failure is to blame for the lack of contact. Seo-jun captains a boat with more than 20 crew members from South Korea and Myanmar. He says satellite navigation has been breaking up – posing extra risks. "Since the war began, GPS interference has occurred intermittently, but it has become much worse over the past three or four days," he says. When their boat entered Dubai, the sailors had to navigate without GPS. "There's a Korean saying that describes it as 'like a blind person feeling for a door knob'," he says. Apart from worrying about their safety, many sailors fear that water and food will run out soon. On Seo-jun's ship they have enough fresh food for 15 days, but drinking water has become a worry. "The ship can produce fresh water by desalinating seawater, but that becomes difficult if we are not sailing," he says. "It's already been two months since we got the provisions on board," a Pakistani sailor, Masood, says. Before the war, Hein says his ship offered buffet meals and the crew could get fresh food like eggs, and water whenever they wanted. But now a quota system is in place on Hein's ship and they only get one meal of four small pieces of meat and one bowl of fried vegetables daily. Their supplies will only last for a month. "Our life is very humiliating here and we have very little fuel and food," says another Pakistani sailor, Zeeshan. "Nobody can be happy and relax in this situation," Amir says. "We keep ourselves busy in daily routine jobs. Drills, safety and security training." Hein, who works as a senior engineer on the vessel, agrees. "I don't allow myself to become desperate because I am in charge of 20 other Myanmar crew members." He has also prepared a contingency exit plan if the situation deteriorates further. "I told my team how to run, where to jump from and what to carry if something happens." Even if the sailors reach land after their vessels are docked in a safe port, there may be no easy way for them to get home or leave the region. Hamza says his son, who is stuck on a ship, is among sailors "not being allowed to leave" because their companies have their passports. At the same time, frightened sailors who don't fulfil their contracts by abandoning ship will have difficulties finding future employment as shipping companies may blacklist them. The situation is desperate, and Amir says he can only hope for the best and pray for the safety of all seafarers. He also urges shipping companies not to force their crew to pass the Strait of Hormuz. Those fears are hypothetical, but he worries that financial pressures could override safety. He says if any vessel is hit by a drone or a missile it is the sailors who pay the human cost, while cargo and ships can be covered by insurance. "Human life cannot be replaced by any insurance," he says. He believes that the war will significantly change the seafaring industry. "The style and purpose of this war is very different from what we saw in the past few years. This war will have long-term effects on the trade in the Persian Gulf." Chowdhury believes sailors are caught up in events they have no responsibility for. "People should not victimise the ships. When you victimise the ship, you victimise the seafarers also, who are innocent people," he says. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
On 9 April 2003 a statue of the leader of Iraq, Saddam Hussein, was pulled down in the centre of Baghdad. The metal plaque at the base of the statue was torn off and the statue's marble plinth attacked with a sledgehammer. Iraqi civilians initially tried to pull it down, scaling the statue to secure a noose around its neck, but were unable to dismantle it. It took help from American troops using an armoured vehicle to finally topple it. It was a moment that symbolised regime change. US and allied forces had launched their attack on Iraq only 20 days earlier, opening with an intense bombing campaign and an attempted decapitation strike using cruise missiles that targeted the Iraqi leader. Three weeks on from the statue coming down, America's President, George W Bush, stood aboard a US aircraft carrier, anchored off the Californian coast, behind a banner saying "Mission Accomplished". Except it was anything but. The shadow of that Iraq war looms large over the current conflict with Iran. It was a war which left deep scars in Iraq as it set in train a series of events which spiralled out of control in a way no one predicted. It left a trail of death and destruction: it is estimated that 461,000 people died in Iraq from war-related causes between 2003 and 2011 and that the war cost the US $3 trillion (£2.24 trillion). The war reshaped the Middle East and also had a profound effect on the public's trust in politicians in the countries that launched the war. Today, the US has embarked on what many see as another "war of choice" in the region, this time against Iraq's neighbour, Iran. The echoes and parallels between the two conflicts are certainly there but there are also profound differences which tell us much about how the world has changed since and whether or not a repeat of the failures of Iraq can be avoided. There were many overlapping motives for Washington to invade Iraq, some not acknowledged publicly at the time. But at the core was the desire for regime change. For some around US President George W Bush there was a feeling of unfinished business from the 1991 Gulf War when Saddam Hussein had been ejected from Kuwait but remained in power. For President Bush it may also have been even more personal since his father, President George HW Bush, had led that campaign and Hussein had plotted to kill him after. Meanwhile, some believed regime change was justified on human rights grounds. They wanted Hussein's overthrow because of the way he had inflicted terrible violence on his own people – even using chemical weapons against Kurdish civilians back in the 1980s. This fitted in with the era of liberal interventionism that the UK had backed from the 1990s under Tony Blair, intervening in the Balkans to prevent bloodshed in Kosovo. Iraqi exiles also wanted the chance for a new future for their country without the regime they hated. Then there were those "neo-conservatives" who wanted to reshape the Middle East, bringing democracy and removing dictatorships hostile to the US. Baghdad first, then Tehran, some said, a reminder how long Iran has been on the agenda. And finally after the 11 September attacks in 2001 which killed 2,977 people (not counting the 19 hijackers) after planes were crashed into the Twin Towers, the Pentagon and a field in Pensylvania, there were hawks in Washington who wanted to restore America's deterrent power and show what it could do. The attacks by al-Qaeda on 911 changed the calculus in terms of the level of destruction that could be wrought on America and its allies and very soon Iraq moved to the top of the agenda, even though it had no role in the attacks. Success in routing the Taliban from control of Afghanistan in late 2001, a response to the attacks a few months earlier, also heightened confidence in Washington of what it could do. But in the end, the justification for war revolved around something else - Iraq's supposed weapons of mass destruction capabilities – plans for nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, as well as missile capabilities. When it came to the British and American public, emphasising the threat posed by these was the easiest way to build public support for military action. Internationally, the failure of Iraq to comply with UN resolutions over its weapons provided a means to seek legitimacy as well. The weapons were never the real reason though, as Luis Rueda, head of the CIA's Iraq Operations Group at the time, told me later. "We would have invaded Iraq if Saddam Hussein had a rubber band and a paperclip. We would have said 'oh, he will take your eye out. Let's take him out.'" Today's attack on Iran also seems to emerge from a complex mix of motivations – degrading its military, preventing acquisition of weapons of mass destruction, regime change to create a more pliant state, and supporting the people against a regime that inflicted violence on them, have all been cited by members of Trump's administration. In many ways, it was the attacks on Israel by Hamas on 7 October 2023 which began a process of changing calculations in Washington as to what could be done to Iran as Israel's risk calculus changed and it began to target Iran and its proxies. That has opened the way for Washington to also take action. But this time round in the US, there has been no attempt to publicly resolve the sometimes contradictory desires to take action. In fact, US President Donald Trump has himself seemed to veer between them depending on which day he is talking and who to. Nor has there been any attempt to sell the war to the American public – a process which unfolded over months with Iraq. And nor has there been any attempt to seek international legitimacy through the UN. Back in 2003, there was endless discussion of which states might back action. This time, the UN and international law have felt irrelevant to the decision makers. All of that speaks to a different world, one in which the old international order has near-collapsed and in which a mercurial president does not feel the need to resolve the different motives at play and provide a coherent justification. In 2003, the US went to war with allies, most prominently the UK. Prime Minister Tony Blair had stood alongside President Bush in the run-up, famously writing him a private note in the summer of 2002 saying he would be with the US leader "whatever". His belief – expressed again in recent days when it comes to Iran – was that the UK needed to maximise influence over US policy by getting and remaining close. "When I was prime minister there was no doubt either under President Clinton or President Bush who the American president picked up the phone to first. It was the British prime minister," he told me in an interview to mark the 20th anniversary of the invasion. But even some of those closest to him were wary of the level of commitment Blair showed. The "whatever" note "was not a good idea", his then Foreign Secretary Jack Straw later told me. And critics questioned how much influence Blair managed to get in return back then. He persuaded Washington to go down the route of seeking UN approval. But this was halfhearted on Washington's part and ultimately proved unsuccessful. When offered a chance to pull out, Blair then declined, saying he believed in the war. "This is where you've got to make these judgements as prime minister at the time," he told me in 2003. "They were offering me the way out because they felt sorry for the politically difficult situation that I was in, but... it would have had a significant impact on the relationship." And indeed the political price for him would be heavy, especially when the weapons of mass destruction on which he had made the case turned out not to exist. That damaged him and more broadly reduced people's willingness to believe what they were told. "It undermined trust in public life," former Foreign Secretary Jack Straw reflected. "I'm not in any doubt about that." Trying to deal with Iraq would also consume the last years of George W Bush's presidency and taint his legacy, reshaping American politics. President Obama came to office with a clear desire not to get involved in such interventions again. And remarkably, so did President Trump. This time round, the US has worked with Israel and not the UK or other allies to attack Iran. Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer has decided to maintain distance from Washington, refusing the use of UK bases during the original strike though then shifting to allow their use for "defensive" purposes. That may be due to the lingering memories of Iraq for a bruised Labour Party but also reflects the calculation over how much influence he really could have over President Trump. A deeper question is how far the UK and US are beginning to move apart. Officials who work on the security and intelligence relationship maintain it remains close, but there is also a sense that closeness may be partly based on inertia as the US increasingly moves to a different security posture, actively undermining the old international order in which the UK has been heavily invested. Previous prime ministers have sometimes kept their distance from Washington's wars – for instance Harold Wilson over Vietnam – but this feels different. Iraq's legacy is most obvious in the way that leaders in Washington have been at pains to stress the differences between it and the current conflict. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth has been explicit that Iran is different to Iraq and will not turn into a "forever war". One aspect of that is that this time the US is talking about regime change but has not, so far, put in place ground troops to bring it about as they did in 2003 when around 150,000 troops were deployed which led to a fast, effective overthrow of Saddam Hussein (who escaped the initial decapitation strike but was later captured). The explicit desire to avoid the kind of commitment of troops seen in Iraq limits options – regime change from the air alone is much harder without allying with some kind of insurgent force on the ground. There has been talk of arming Kurds to fight the Iranian government today. They played their part in 2003 but only alongside the much larger army of troops from the US and its allies. After the initial victory in 2003 came a long drawn-out occupation as an insurgency and civil war took hold. The US does not want to get drawn into that situation again but the problem is that some of its more expansive aims may be hard to realise without a deeper commitment – notably if it really does want regime change, as opposed to just degrading Iran's military or having a change of leader under the same regime (as happened in Venezuela). One major parallel between then and now though seems to be the lack of planning for what might come next. This in turn relates to confusion over what the actual aim is. In the case of Iraq in 2003 different visions for the future were never resolved. There was no effective planning for the period after military engagements were completed. "Where the mistake was made was in trying to create a new government for the Iraqis," former US National Security Adviser John Bolton told me two decades later. "We should have said to the Iraqis: 'Congratulations – form your own government. Here's a copy of the Federalist Papers. Good Luck." That was at variance with those who supported the idea of spreading democracy through the Middle East and wanted to build that in Iraq first. Iraq is now in a much better state than it was in the immediate aftermath and many are glad to see Saddam Hussein gone. But democracy did not spread through the Middle East in the aftermath as some had claimed it would. Instead, one of the biggest winners of the invasion would be Iran whose main adversary was removed, allowing it to extend its influence into Iraq and beyond in the years after the war. And it would increase the terrorist threat within the UK and the broader West. Wars do not always have the outcomes people expect or want. Iraq and Iran are very different countries but can lessons be learnt? So far there is little sign of a coherent plan for what the US wants to bring about or what kind of future it envisages for the country. This time, the improvisation seems to be a deliberate strategy as it leaves President Trump with different options for what he can declare as victory before moving on, creating his own "Mission Accomplished" moment. He could say simply that degrading the Iranian missile and naval capability was enough and that regime change was always something for the Iranian people (even though he talked of wanting it at some points). That would leave a damaged but embittered Iranian regime in power, an outcome closer to the 1991 Gulf War where Saddam Hussein was ejected from Kuwait but left in control in Baghdad. The result was years of tension, occasional bombing, fears of weapons of mass destruction development and eventually another war in 2003. One lesson of Iraq is that it is easier to break a state in war than to build one afterwards. And parts of the Iranian state are certainly being broken now. The current war is also forcing America's allies – like the UK but particularly in the Gulf states who have been the subject of Iranian attacks – to reconsider how secure they really are. And the domestic political repercussions for those embarking on war, especially President Trump, could also be unpredictable as the economic fall-out spreads in ways he did not seem to expect. One possible takeaway is that humility can come in handy when embarking on military interventions. Wars are inherently unpredictable and their outcome and their legacy can resonate for decades. To picture credit: Anadolu Agency  Gamma- Rapho via Getty Images BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. Emma Barnett and John Simpson bring their pick of the most thought-provoking deep reads and analysis, every Saturday. Sign up for the newsletter here The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
It has been nearly two weeks since Americans woke to the news that the US had carried out strikes against Iran. Donald Trump has said "we're achieving major strides", but the US president and his administration have offered conflicting statements about what they hope to ultimately achieve. The operation is a significant turn for a president who campaigned on ending US military involvement abroad. So far, polling suggests support for the war falls largely along party lines, but even some Republican voters tell the BBC their feelings are complicated. Here, six American voters share their reaction to the war. A Trump supporter, he says he doesn't see the intervention as fitting the president's "America First" promise. I'm not interested in this war. I didn't want this war. Most of my friends are all good Trump guys like I am, and they're not in tune with this either. One of the big things in his first term was not starting any wars, and that was a big thing for me. The biggest concern is the death of American soldiers, for what? And things are about to go to hell with gas prices, diesel prices, oil. [Trump] was about to have a roaring economy, with no taxes on tips, no taxes on overtime...Inflation was going down, and I think that's all going to go in the tank, if this keeps going. This Republican thinks increased gas prices are a small price to pay for the freedom of millions of Iranians. I don't like war, but finally someone's doing something to stop terrorism - that's commendable. There's finally a president here ready to do something that others haven't. We live in a country where we have freedom to speak out. Thousands of people were killed in Iran when they were trying to have their own protests. I think people are forgetting what has happened in Iran in the last 30 years. We're forgetting some of the human rights violations that have been going on. All I hear is everyone going, 'Well my gas prices are going'. Yeah, well, you live in a great place - you don't live in a place where you're being terrorized by a regime. This Democrat is a teacher who worries about what the conflict could mean for her students and her family. Just because I'm a teacher and I'm always with the youth, I'm worried. What if this turns into a forever war? What's that going to mean for my students long term? It definitely does not feel like it's going to be over quickly. I'm worried about retaliation stateside. We were thinking about going to New York City this summer, and now maybe not. Now we're looking at avoiding large gatherings and important structures, no bridges, big buildings, Disneyland - all of that kind of feels a little out of the picture, just for safety. This Republican has mixed feelings and questions what America's role should be in global conflicts. On the one hand I'm supportive if the regime is removed. But this feels icky that we're in this regime change programme. You're taking us into a war and a real commitment - where is the participation of the legislative branch, the people's representatives? If the Islamic Republic is replaced by something that is more democratic for its own people, for its own good, that's great. But it's a long way from being certain. I don't know if this is the business the United States should be in, changing regimes that we don't like. I know we don't like them, and I don't like them, but is that what we're supposed to do as a country? This Democrat feels the US is making a 'grave mistake' and the war is taking attention away from domestic stories, such as the release of the Epstein files. If you see what's going on in Iran right now, the [American] people are not really focused on the Epstein files anymore. They're focused on Iran, because it's a bigger issue. If you look what's happening, people are getting killed. American soldiers are getting hit. They're losing lives, and then you see there's not really any clear goal for where this is headed. Are they going to stop? It doesn't seem like it. Are they going to exit? It doesn't seem like it. In just 11 or 12 days, it's real chaos. Just project how it's going to feel in 20 or 30 days? This Democrat worries about prices and whether Americans will be drafted. But most of all, she worries about how the conflict might escalate. Prices of everything are insane. I have to think about gas prices since they've jumped up. I'm most concerned with escalation. All these tiny little wars the administration is popping here and there and everywhere - trouble in Venezuela, trouble in Iran. I feel like it's already turning into a very global war and that's very concerning. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. The Uganda Law Society criticises the deportation, saying it was illegal and "dehumanising". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Israeli military has carried out several waves of air strikes across Lebanon, including the capital Beirut, after the Iranian-backed armed group Hezbollah launched about 200 rockets into northern Israel. Many Israeli strikes were reported in the south of the country and Beirut's southern suburbs, a Hezbollah stronghold from which thousands of people have fled because of the intense bombardment over the past week. Some strikes hit other parts of the capital, including the Corniche seafront. Lebanon's health ministry said 12 people were killed there overnight. Hezbollah launched the rocket barrage across the Israeli border on Wednesday evening in an apparently co-ordinated attack with Iran. Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz said on Thursday that the Israeli military had been instructed to prepare to broaden its operations in Lebanon in response. The military subsequently expanded a blanket evacuation order for southern Lebanon, almost doubling the size of the zone it has said residents should leave for their safety. It now covers almost the entire area south of the Zahrani river, which flows east to west about 40km (25 miles) from the Israeli border, according to a map posted online. In an address to his nation, Lebanese Prime Minister Nawaf Salam said: "It is a war we did not want; on the contrary, we are working day and night to bring it to an end." Lebanon was pulled into the conflict between Iran, Israel and the US 10 days ago, when Hezbollah launched rockets and drones into Israel in retaliation for the assassination of Iran's supreme leader and repeated Israeli strikes since a ceasefire ended their last war in 2024. Israel said Hezbollah's attack justified launching a broader campaign against the group, including intense air strikes and commando raids inside Lebanese territory. It has said the campaign will continue until Hezbollah is disarmed. At least 687 people, including 98 children, have been killed in Israeli attacks in Lebanon since then and 800,000 others have been displaced, according to Lebanese authorities. Two Israeli soldiers have been killed in combat in Lebanon, according to the Israeli military. On Thursday evening, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said it was carrying out waves of strikes targeting Hezbollah infrastructure in southern Lebanon and Beirut. One hit a building in the capital's central Bachoura neighbourhood, less than 500m (1,640ft) away from a BBC team. It followed a warning from the IDF that told residents it would be targeting a "a facility belonging to the terrorist group Hezbollah". A warning hit came before the building was struck, sending a plume of grey smoke over the city. More strikes followed, shaking the windows of the building where the BBC team was. Earlier, a large area at Ramlet al-Baida, on Beirut's Corniche, was cordoned off as officials inspected the scene of an overnight strike. A Lebanese military official said personnel were dealing with unexploded ordnance. The Lebanese health ministry said 12 people were killed and 28 others injured after what appeared to be a direct hit on a car. There were reports of a second attack after people gathered to help, causing further casualties. There were no specific warnings about the strike at the seafront, where hundreds of people displaced by the conflict were sleeping in makeshift shelters. Khoudor Housseini, whose family was staying there after fleeing the town of Chmestar in the eastern Bekaa Valley, said an Israeli drone flying overhead fired a missile at a parked car. "After about two minutes, it targeted the car again. One missile didn't explode," he told the BBC. "If it had exploded, maybe we would have all died... God protected us." "I'm one of the people who wanted to go help, but I couldn't. I have a little baby with me." Mohammed Ali, whose family was displaced from Beirut's southern suburbs, told the BBC: "We were sleeping here peacefully and didn't feel anything until something exploded and we woke up in a panic." "They said one strike had happened so we went back to sleep, thinking the targeting was over, but then the second strike happened." Mohammed said he grabbed two of his children and rushed them away from the area. He complained that schools which have been transformed into displacement centres in the city were already full, leaving few options for people who have fled from their homes. The IDF has not yet commented on the strike. There was also heavy bombing in Beirut's southern suburbs, also known as Dahieh. The IDF said 10 structures there used by Hezbollah were struck overnight, including an intelligence headquarters and a headquarters of the elite Radwan force, along with dozens of rocket launchers and Hezbollah operatives preparing to use them. "The IDF is operating with determination against the Hezbollah terrorist organisation as a result of the terrorist organisation's decision to deliberately attack Israel on behalf of the Iranian regime," it added. An IDF spokesperson said Hezbollah's cross-border attack on Wednesday was its biggest so far in this conflict, with approximately 200 rockets and 20 drones launched by the group at the same time as Iran launched a number of ballistic missiles towards Israel. Hezbollah said on Wednesday night that it had targeted sites in northern Israel in response to what it called "the criminal aggression against dozens of Lebanese cities and towns". Later, the group said the targets had included the headquarters of the Israeli military's northern command near Safed and two bases in the northern city of Haifa. Iran's Islamic Revolution Guard Corps (IRGC) also said its forces had carried out a "joint and integrated operation" with Hezbollah that focused on more than 50 targets in Israel. Israeli authorities said one building was hit and damaged in the northern Galilee region, lightly wounding two people. Another building was damaged by debris from an interception in Haniel, a farming community in the central Sharon region, but no injuries were reported. On Thursday morning, Israel's defence minister said the Israeli military had been instructed to prepare for "expanding... operations in Lebanon and for restoring quiet and security to the northern communities" in response to the latest Hezbollah attack. Katz also warned Lebanon's President Michel Aoun that if the Lebanese government "does not know how to control the territory and prevent Hezbollah from threatening northern communities and firing toward Israel, we will take the territory and do it ourselves." French President Emmanuel Macron said late on Wednesday that he had spoken to Aoun about the threats to Lebanon's security and unity. "Hezbollah made a major mistake in dragging Lebanon into a confrontation with Israel. It must immediately cease its attacks," Macron wrote on X. "For its part, Israel must clearly renounce any ground offensive in Lebanon." UN humanitarian chief Tom Fletcher has warned of "a moment of grave peril for Lebanon". "The Lebanese people are doing everything they can just to stay afloat right now. And what they most need is Iran and Israel to take war somewhere else," he told the BBC. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran will continue blocking the Strait of Hormuz, the world's busiest oil shipping channel, according to a statement attributed to Iran's new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei. His message was broadcast on Iranian state TV, but Khamenei did not appear in person. His message was instead read out by a newsreader. Iran would "avenge the blood" of Iranians killed in the war with the US and Israel, Khamenei said in the statement, which also warned neighbouring countries to stop hosting US bases. He was named supreme leader on 8 March after his father, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was killed on the first day of the war. Mojtaba Khamenei lost his wife and a son in the US-Israeli strike on the supreme leader's compound that killed his father. His mother was also reportedly killed in the attack, though one Iranian outlet has since said she is alive. It has been reported by the Reuters news agency, citing an unnamed Iranian official, that Khamenei was "lightly injured", but there have been no details. He has not been seen in public and there have been no photographs or videos of him since becoming supreme leader. Iran's state TV news channel has referred to him as a "veteran of the Ramadan war",  without any further confirmation on whether he was injured. In the first public message attributed to him, Khamenei said Iran should use the "lever of blocking the Strait of Hormuz" as the channel is an area where "the enemy is highly vulnerable". Iran would continue targeting US bases in the region, Khamenei said in his statement. Tehran had a policy of "friendship" with neighbouring countries, but he warned them to close their American bases. "We share land or maritime borders with 15 neighbouring countries and have always sought warm and constructive relations with all of them," he said. "These countries must clarify their stance toward the aggressors against our homeland and the killers of our people." "I advise them to close those bases as soon as possible." Iran's new leader also mentioned "the crimes against children, such as the deliberate crime at the Minab school". According to American media reports, US investigators believe American forces mistakenly hit a school in southern Iran which was located near a military base. Khamenei said he learned he had become the supreme leader of Iran via the country's state TV channel. "I learned about the result of the vote of the esteemed Assembly of Experts at the same time as you and through the Islamic Republic's television." Speaking hours later after Israel said it had launched a new wave of strikes on Tehran, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Iran's new leader was a "puppet" of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards who "can't show his face in public". Asked about Khamenei and Hezbollah leader Naim Qassem he said "I wouldn't issue life insurance policies on any of the leaders of the terrorist organisation", according to Reuters. Iran has threatened attacks on shipments through the Strait of Hormuz, which is normally a conduit for one-fifth of the world's oil. Blocking oil tankers from sailing through the Strait – and strikes by Iran on oil tankers in the Gulf – has led to soaring oil prices. On Wednesday, Tehran said the world should be ready for oil at $200 per barrel and warned that any tanker bound for the US, Israel and its partners was a legitimate target. The International Energy Agency has warned oil markets are suffering "the largest supply disruption in history." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The United Arab Emirate's Minister of State Lana Nusseibeh has called on Iran to end its strikes on countries in the region and vowed that her country would "bounce back". More than 1,800 drones and missiles have been projected at the UAE since the war began, she said. The extent of the attacks came as a "shock", she told the BBC. Some of the UAE's best known buildings have been damaged - including Fairmont The Palm hotel, in the luxurious Palm Jumeirah area, and the Burj Al Arab hotel. Drones have landed near the Dubai International Airport and thousands of flights to the UAE have been cancelled. However Nusseibeh refused to be drawn on whether her country would retaliate militarily against Iran. "We were clear prior to the start of this escalation that the UAE would not allow its territory or airspace to be used in any attacks against Iran," she said. Asked if retaliatory strikes were off the table, she replied: "We will reserve the right for collective self defence under international law." Other Gulf states including Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Kuwait and Oman have also been targeted by Iran as it retaliates in response to US and Israeli attacks. Trade through the region's biggest port, Jebel Ali in Dubai, has also been affected and the war has halted most shipping through the Strait of Hormuz at the mouth of the Gulf. The UAE's biggest city Dubai has also cultivated a reputation as a glamorous and attractive destination for expats pursuing business opportunities and travel. However Nusseibeh, who was also formerly the UAE's ambassador to the UN, insisted that her country's economy would recover. "Iran is responsible for damage it has caused. The civilian infrastructure, the hotels, the ports," she said. But she said the UAE was "resilient" and, citing economic growth of 5.1% last year, insisted "you will see our economy bounce back". Nusseibeh declined to comment on the 60-year-old British man who has been charged under cyber-crime laws in Dubai after allegedly filming Iranian missiles over the city, saying she was "not aware of all the details". But she denied it was an attempt to avoid painting a true and troubling picture of what life was currently like in the UAE. "In order for everyone to feel safe, it is very important at this time, that the information is credible and the sources are reliable," she said. "That is the basis of the legislation that has come into play in the state which is obviously a tense time." She added that she was "aware there have already been some violations of this law". Criticism of the government is illegal in the UAE, and it exercises strict control over the flow of information out of the country. UK-based human rights group Amnesty International has said the UAE has "continued to criminalise the right to freedom of expression through multiple laws and to punish actual or perceived critics of the government". However Nusseibeh advised people in the country to follow the guidelines "for your safety. And for your protection". The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
British forces based in Iraq shot down two Iranian drones overnight, Defence Secretary John Healey has said. But some drones in the attack hit the coalition base in the Iraqi city of Erbil, the capital of the Kurdistan region, and injured a number of US troops. There were no British casualties. Brigadier Guy Foden said the base and another in the Iraqi capital of Baghdad were struck "a number of times" on Wednesday night and British personnel are currently in Erbil helping to defend that base. Since the US-Israeli strikes on Iran, US bases in Iraq have been targeted in retaliation. The Western base in Erbil is controlled by the US but often houses other forces including British troops. Foden said British forces "shot down two UAVs (unmanned aerial vehicles) coming out of the camp but a number of UAVs did impact the camp". Healey said from the point when Iran began "hitting back indiscriminately" at countries across the Middle East, there had been a British team involved in Iraq. "We've had a team at the base in Erbil that's been pulling down drones, protecting themselves but also protecting the base and other service people that they serve with there," he said. Healey was speaking during a visit to the UK's military headquarters in Northwood, north-west London, where he received a briefing on the latest situation in the Middle East. The UK's chief of joint operations, Lieutenant General Nick Perry, told Healey at the briefing that there were "definitively" signs of a link between Russia and Iran in the way attack drones are being used. Healey later told reporters that Iranian drone attacks have the hallmark of the way Russia is attacking Ukraine, adding: "No one will be surprised to believe that Putin's hidden hand is behind some of the Iranian tactics." The defence secretary said Putin was the "one world leader" benefiting from the war because of higher oil prices, which he said help the Russian president with a fresh supply of funds for his brutal war in Ukraine. Also overnight, Foden said the UK flew air combat patrols over Jordan and the United Arab Emirates, in addition to a "number of sorties" over Qatar. RAF jets also continued to fly in defence of Cyprus with European allies in the region. Healey added that the UK had clocked up more than 300 pilot flying hours over the last 13 days. A British warship, HMS Dragon - which left the UK for the region on Tuesday - was still on the way to the Mediterranean as of midday on Thursday. The Strait of Hormuz was also discussed with defence personnel, Healey said, as reports were becoming clearer that Iran "may have been mining" the Strait. Healey said the UK had some "autonomous de-mining assets" in the area, but the only Royal Navy mine-hunting ship that was stationed in Bahrain, HMS Middleton, had returned to Portsmouth for planned maintenance. The US state department says a suspect in her abduction has ties to an Iran-backed militia group, Kataib Hezbollah. The UK government announces further air defence systems will be sent to countries in the region along with troops to operate them. A reparations scheme offers up to £70k to those who were forced to leave the military for being gay. Hull4Heroes says the funding is "absolutely essential" to help veterans beyond the city. A service was held in Dorset to mark the beginning of Land Rover vehicles being phased out by the Army by 2030. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Six ships have been attacked in the Gulf in less than 48 hours, bringing the total of vessels attacked since the start of the war to 18, according to reports by UK Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) and the maritime intelligence company Vanguard. It comes as Iran's new supreme leader Mojtaba Khamenei vowed to keep blocking the Strait of Hormuz in his first public statement on Thursday. Verified footage showed two tankers on fire in Iraqi waters at the north of the Gulf late on Wednesday and UKMTO reported the ships had been "struck by an unknown projectile". Safesea Vishnu, a US-owned vessel heading to India, was hit by an "unmanned speed boat carrying explosives" which "rammed into it, resulting in a major fire onboard", Indian authorities said. Video filmed from a small boat - and authenticated by BBC Verify - shows a large explosion on the Safesea Vishnu before the boat speeds away and those on board can be heard celebrating. The head of the General Company for Iraqi ports said it rescued 38 crew members from the attacked ship and that one person has died, according to the Iraqi News Agency. There were no reported injuries on the second vessel, the Maltese-flagged Zefyros. Three crew members are still missing and believed to be trapped in the engine room of another vessel, the Thai-flagged Mayuree Naree, that was hit while transiting through the Strait of Hormuz on Wednesday morning, the ship's owner told BBC Verify. "In theory, Iran can keep threatening shipping indefinitely," said Nick Brown from the defence intelligence company Janes. "Iranian forces are well practised in decoy, camouflage and subterfuge tactics, and many of their smaller weapons can be disguised in commercial vehicles, hidden in buildings and out of sight along Iran's long coastline," he added. "Small craft, robot craft, small submarines, shore based missiles, even mobile artillery - all of which Iran has - could attack ships as they sail past," said Professor Michael Clarke from King's College London. The latest data from the ship tracking firm MarineTraffic shows that just six vessels have passed through the strait since Monday. Tracking these ships has been difficult as some may have been turning off their onboard trackers, as Iran continues to target vessels. Signal jamming is also causing many ships to transmit misleading location data. The locations of the strikes on vessels reported by UKMTO and Vanguard show the attacks have spanned the length of the Gulf and the Gulf of Oman, but most have been concentrated near the Strait of Hormuz. About 20% of the world's oil - around 20 million barrels per day - usually transits through this narrow corridor between Iran in the north and Oman and the United Arab Emirates in the south. It is also a key trading route for other commodities such as helium, the chemical sulphate, and urea, which is used to produce fertiliser. "No ship wants to pass through there and no insurer wants to insure those ships that are passing through there. This is the scenario that we've all been predicting for a long time - the closing of the strait - which is a nightmare," said Neil Quilliam from the Chatham House think-tank. Ten of the ships reported by UKMTO and Vanguard as having been attacked since 28 February are tankers, according to MarineTraffic data. Iran has said it would "not allow even a single litre of oil" heading for the US, Israel and their partners to pass through the strait. In addition to strikes on oil tankers, we have also verified 10 strikes on oil facilities and depots since the conflict began on 28 February, spanning Bahrain, Oman, Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Qatar. Energy prices have soared since the start of the war, approaching $120 a barrel on Monday. A spokesperson for Iran's military command, Ebrahim Zolfaqari, this week warned: "Get ready for the oil barrel to be at $200 because the oil price depends on the regional stability which you have destabilised." Thirty two countries unanimously voted to release 400 million barrels of oil to offset the "effective closure" of the shipping channel, the International Energy Agency (IEA) announced on Wednesday. US President Donald Trump told his supporters in Kentucky on Wednesday the decision would "substantially reduce oil prices" and earlier described the fluctuations in price of oil as a "matter of war". Trump last week pledged a military escort for oil tankers moving through the Strait of Hormuz "if necessary", but experts have told BBC Verify it is unlikely this could guarantee the safety of every ship. "If the US intention is to escort all commercial vessels, this would require diverting many assets away from other tasks," said Professor Basil Germond from Lancaster University. "Even if a convoy is 90% effective, which ship owners and crew unions are prepared to play Russian roulette in one of them?" said Clarke. US Central Command released footage on Wednesday of what it described as strikes on 16 mine-laying ships in the Iranian navy. The Iranian military inventory includes the Sadaf-02 sea mine, designed to sit just below the waterline and detonate after contact with a passing ship, plus the more-advanced Maham-2, which sits deeper and detonates when it detects a moving ship above through magnetic or sound sensors.  There have so far been no reports of ships hitting mines. "The regime in Tehran has this asymmetric power. It costs them nothing compared to the cost of defending commercial shipping," said Germond. "Will this proposed escort convince shipping companies that the strait is safe enough? It is a question of who is more credible: the US Navy or the Iranians," he said. "And the proof will only be in the pudding." Additional reporting by Shruti Menon, Yi Ma, Paul Brown and Becky Dale. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran has stepped up attacks on energy targets in the Gulf, as two fuel tankers were hit by explosions and burst into flames. Fires are burning around the region with fuel and oil storage tanks hit in Bahrain and Oman. Tehran said the world should be ready for oil at $200 per barrel and warned that any tanker bound for the US, Israel and its partners was a legitimate target. The regime has also declared it has the right to strike financial institutions in the region, after an attack on an Iranian bank. Meanwhile, the Israeli military has said it has begun a new, "large-scale wave" of attacks on Iran. The two tankers were set ablaze near Iraq's southern port of Basra, forcing a pause of operations at the country's oil terminals. The Iraqi News Agency, citing a military official, reports that 38 crew members were rescued and one person died. Iran's official news agency IRNA said the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) struck one of the two ships – a US-owned vessel, the Safesea Vishnu – because it had ignored warnings and failed to comply with orders. Indian authorities earlier said the Safesea Vishnu, which sails under the Marshall Islands flag, was attacked by an unmanned speed boat. A second vessel, Greek-owned and Maltese-flagged Zefyros, was struck while it was in the middle of a ship-to-ship transfer with the Safesea Vishnu, the vessel's manager Benetech Shipping said. Separately, a Chinese-owned container ship of the coast of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) was "struck by an unknown projectile causing a small fire onboard", the UK Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) Centre said. The cause of the latter two strikes is still being investigated. About 20% of the world's oil usually passes through the Strait of Hormuz and the war has sent global oil prices soaring – reaching $100 a barrel at one point. "Get ready for the oil barrel to be at $200 because the oil price depends on the regional security which you have destabilised," Ebrahim Zolfaqari, spokesperson for Iran's military command said. On Wednesday, President Donald Trump insisted fluctuations in prices were a "matter of war" and "prices are coming down very substantially". The Iranian military command has also warned it could target US and Israeli banking interests in the region, following a strike on an Iranian bank. "Our powerful armed forces will exact retribution for this crime," Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said on X, who claimed his country's oldest bank was bombed while  employees were inside. International banks have been closing their Gulf offices – HSBC in Qatar, Citi and Standard Chartered in Dubai – telling employees to stay home. On Wednesday night, Bahrain authorities accused Iran of targeting fuel tanks near its international airport. Pictures showed thick plumes of smoke. Authorities urged people to keep their windows closed, before the blaze was contained hours later. On Thursday morning, fire crews in Oman were still working to contain a blaze at fuel storage tanks from Wednesday's strike on the port of Salalah. And in Dubai, a high-rise building was pictured with a large hole, after the local government said a drone "fell on a building". It was not clear where the reported drone came from. Kuwait's state news wire service said drones targeted its international airport causing damage. On Thursday, the Israel Defense Forces said it had begun a large-scale wave of attacks against Iranian regime infrastructure. The US Central Command insisted it was eliminating Iran's ability to threaten American forces and partners. "We have hit them harder than virtually any country in history has been hit, and we're not finished yet," Trump told reporters on Wednesday. The UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) said up to 3.2 million Iranians have been temporarily displaced in Iran due to the conflict. UN humanitarian chief Tom Fletcher told the BBC the war was a "reckless military adventure" and he described the plight of civilians. Speaking to Radio 4's Today programme, he said: "We've got hundreds of kids killed. We've got the warning lights flashing across the dashboard." Addressing the strike on a primary school in Iran, that Iranian officials say killed 168 people including around 110 children, he demanded a full and transparent investigation. Expert video analysis shows a US Tomahawk missile hit a military base near the school in southern Iran. "Every day that goes by is driving many more people from their homes and from their families, many more people are dying." Fletcher said the UN was also trying to keep the Strait of Hormuz open in its bid to get aid convoys to sub-Saharan Africa amid a "looming famine" in the region. The conflict across the Middle East follows the wide-ranging US-Israeli strikes on Iran on 28 February, which killed the country's supreme leader. Iran has continued to respond by launching attacks on Israel and US-allied states in the Gulf, which have extended to non-military targets, including civilian sites and energy facilities. More than 1,300 people have died and 17,000 have been injured in Iran since the conflict began, Iran's Ambassador to the UN Amir-Saeid Iravani has said. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"We thought they'd kill all the senior figures and the regime would collapse in days, but we are in the second week now and every night I wake to explosions," a Tehran resident told the BBC. She initially supported the war, but her frustration is growing. For some Iranians who oppose their country's leadership, the war they initially hoped might accelerate political change is now forcing a painful reassessment, and they are beginning to question whether the cost of the conflict could ultimately outweigh any political outcome. Others, however, still argue that outside military pressure may be the only realistic way to weaken the system. Many Israeli and American officials have framed the campaign largely as an effort to degrade Iran's nuclear and missile capabilities and threats. But some, including US President Donald Trump, have also hinted that the ultimate objective could be regime change. For some critics of Iran's clerical establishment, that suggestion initially raised hopes that external pressure might significantly accelerate that change. Yet conversations with some Iranians inside the country suggest the picture is now far more complicated. It has become increasingly difficult for journalists to contact people inside Iran since the conflict began, as authorities have imposed yet another near-total internet shutdown since 28 February. Despite communication restrictions, the BBC was able to speak to several Iranians who oppose the government and who initially did not oppose the idea of military action against the Islamic Republic, particularly after another uprising attempt and nationwide protests were subdued in what has become the deadliest protest crackdown in the Islamic Republic's history. Their names have been changed for their safety, as expressing dissenting views in Iran can lead to arrest or imprisonment. Sama, a 31-year-old engineer in Tehran, said that when news of the strikes first broke she felt a moment of hope. "For years we have protested," she said. "Every time they silence us, they kill us. "When the strikes started, I thought, this is what the regime cannot survive." Sama said she even celebrated alongside family and friends when reports emerged that Iran's Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, had been killed in US-Israeli strikes. "I was screaming in happiness when the big news was confirmed," she said. But two weeks into the conflict, she says the mood around her and many others has changed. "Now I see some are terrified and people I know are wondering if their neighbourhood will be targeted next," she said. "I can't sleep anymore. I wake up either to the sound of explosions, or because of nightmares about them." Others say the scale of potential civilian suffering is becoming harder to ignore. The UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) says between 600,000 and one million Iranian households are now temporarily displaced inside Iran as a result of the ongoing conflict, according to preliminary assessments, representing up to 3.2 million people. It said the figure is likely to continue rising as hostilities persist, marking a worrying escalation in humanitarian needs. Mina, a 28-year-old teacher in a northern city, said she still wants an end to the ruling clerical establishment but fears the long-term consequences of war. "This fanatic regime brought us this war, I know," she said. "But when you see the massive fires and hear explosions, when you see young children afraid and crying, you start thinking about whether this can ruin the country you love and live in." Mina said some friends who once openly discussed the possibility of regime collapse have grown more cautious as the war continues and many senior officials remain in place. She said: "What if we are left with ruins and the same mullahs and the same government? Only more oppressive and more defiant?" For others, the concern is not only whether the government might fall, but what might follow if it does, especially under conditions that cannot be controlled. Ali, a 31-year-old shopkeeper who was injured during protests in January, said he worries about the possibility of instability or internal conflict. "Everyone talks about 'regime change' like it's a simple switch," he said. "But who will take power? What stops the country from falling into chaos, even if they somehow manage to bring the regime down?" The uncertainty, he said, weighs heavily even on those who strongly oppose the government. "I want freedom," he said. "But I also want a country left standing when this ends." Some also argued that war has strengthened the authorities rather than weakening them when it comes to cracking down on protest and dissent. Fatima, a 27-year-old graphic designer, said external attacks often reinforce the government's long-standing narrative about "the enemy". "They love this," she said. "Now they are saying: 'See? We told you it was all the enemy's plan.' "Criticism has become treason, and they are using that against their own people." She said the presence of paramilitary forces on the streets has meaningfully increased since the war began. "Have you seen their thugs on the street looking for excuses to attack or arrest us?" she said. "It's becoming harder and harder for people to speak out." Yet others argue that such concerns ignore how difficult internal change has proven to be. These voices continue to support the military campaign, saying decades of repression have left no other alternative. Reza, a 40-year-old engineer in the central city of Isfahan, said he believes outside pressure is not only necessary but the only viable path. "People say change must come from within - as if we have not tried," he said. "For God's sake, have these people forgotten the piles of body bags of killed protesters? Wasn't that just two months ago?" Reza believes weakening the government's military and security apparatus could shift the balance of power. "Even if the system doesn't collapse tomorrow, reducing its power can change the equation," he said. Others argue that the cost of the current system remaining in power will ultimately be higher than the cost of war. Milad, a software developer in the southern province of Khuzestan, said he fears the government's policies could lead to even greater destruction if it survives. "Do these people think there will be peace, or even less destruction than what we see in this war, if these fanatics stay in power?" he said. "Look at what they did during 'peace' time: no economy, no water, no rights for women, no future. "I would rather die in these strikes, as long as those who did this to our country die alongside me." Yet even among those who still favour military action, some question the promises made by Trump, who told Iranians in a message after the war began: "When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take. This will be probably your only chance for generations." Saeed, another young Iranian who took part in deadly anti-establishment protests in January, said he is now deeply sceptical. "There is no other way but war against this regime," he said. "But is this Trump guy really still looking for regime change? Is he serious about finishing the job?" "I don't even know anymore. He says different things every single day." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Democrats in the US Senate have written to Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth demanding answers about the strike on a primary school in Iran that Iranian officials say killed 168 people, including about 110 children. US media have reported that US military investigators believe American forces were likely responsible for hitting the school unintentionally at the start of the joint US-Israeli operation - but that they have not reached a final conclusion. The Pentagon said it would respond directly to the authors of the letter, as with all congressional correspondence. Asked last week by the BBC about the strike, Hegseth said the US did not target civilians and was investigating the issue. The letter is from nearly every Senate Democrat, and asks a series of detailed questions about the strike in Minab - starting with whether the US carried it out. It questions whether old or faulty target analysis could have led to the school building being hit. It also highlights Hegseth's vow during a recent news conference that there would be no "stupid rules of engagement" in the war, and asks if the defence secretary had complied with rules to prevent the commission of war crimes. The strike, if a US role was to be confirmed, would amount to one of its worst single cases of civilian casualties in decades of US conflicts in the Middle East. One of the signatories of the letter, Senator Gary Peters, a member of the Armed Services Committee, said the incident had been "a horrific tragedy" and that he wanted to know "exactly what happened". "Let's try to get those facts as quickly as we can so we know exactly what happened, and then we can discuss what actions to take after we know those facts," he told BBC News. The letter highlights how the war has become an issue that divides US lawmakers along party lines. No member of President Donald Trump's Republican Party signed it. Meanwhile, the only Senate Democrat not to do so was John Fetterman, who has supported the military action, though said an investigation into the school strike was right. According to the BBC's partner CBS News and other US outlets, a preliminary assessment of the incident by American officials suggests that the US was "likely" to have been responsible, but that it did not intentionally target the school and may have hit the site in error. This may have been because the intelligence used by the US was outdated and wrongly identified the area as still being a military site, according to a person briefed on the preliminary assessment who spoke to CBS. Trump has previously suggested Iran carried out the bombing. Pressed by reporters about the issue again on Tuesday, he said: "I just don't know enough about it." Referring to the military investigation that was under way, he added: "Whatever the report shows, I'm willing to live with that report." Expert video analysis has shown that an Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) military base next to the school was hit by a Tomahawk missile - a type of US cruise missile that neither Israel nor Iran is known to possess. A video published recently by Iran's semi-official Mehr news agency - which was confirmed by BBC Verify to be authentic - showed a missile in the moments before it struck the base. Experts who saw the video said the presence of a Tomahawk missile, along with evidence the area was hit with multiple strikes, indicated that it was a US operation. Iran has blamed the US and Israel for the attack. Israel says it was not aware of any operations in the area. Speaking recently to the Washington Post, two Israeli officials said the targeting was not discussed with the Israeli military. Other civilian sites including a hospital and historic landmarks have been severely damaged since the US-Israeli operation began on 28 February, satellite images and verified videos show, as the number of reported civilian casualties grows. Iran has continued to respond by launching attacks on Israel and US-allied states in the Gulf, which have also extended to non-military targets, including civilian sites and energy facilities. Also on Wednesday, General David Petraeus, former CIA Director and Commander of US Central Command, was asked about America's possible role in the attack on the school. Speaking to the BBC, he said the Americans "tragically, were probably the ones, we were the only ones that have Tomahawk missiles in this particular exercise, this war" - though he cautioned he had not directly seen the evidence under review. "And it appears that there may have been some old data when this particular building was part of a larger Iranian naval compound... some years ago," he added. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
When it comes to military firepower, the US and Israel are not shy about how they are attacking Iran. With professional photos and slick videos, US Central Command has been posting every few hours on social media about the kinds of weapons, jets and ships being used. But the US and Israel are far more coy on what is happening in cyber-space. Over hours of press conferences, speeches and dozens of social media posts, mentions of cyber operations are vanishingly rare. However, Iranian hackers have claimed their first prominent cyber-attack on a US company during the conflict, on US medical tech firm, Stryker. And cyber is indeed playing a significant role in this war, as commander of the US Central Command Admiral Brad Cooper recently hinted in a press update. "We continue with strikes into Iran from seabed to space and cyber-space," he said. Here is what we know about the types of cyber operations being carried out - and what it tells us about modern warfare. Cyber-espionage and hacking are known to play a large role in so-called "pre-positioning" for war. General Dan Caine, chairman of the joint chiefs of staff at the Pentagon, described in a press conference how the war was enabled by months, in some cases years, of planning that went into preparing the so called "target set" for strikes. US and Israeli hackers could have infiltrated key computer networks in Iran long before any actual strike was planned. Computer networks behind air defences or military communications would have been high-priority targets. The Financial Times was told by unnamed sources that CCTV and traffic cameras had been hacked by Israel to create an enormous surveillance network, in order to establish so called "patterns of life" of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and his commanders in preparation for the strike that killed him. Internet-connected cameras have become a target in cyber warfare as they "offer real‑time situational awareness of streets, facilities, and movement at very low cost," said Sergey Shykevich, threat intelligence expert at cyber-security company Check Point. Commentators say this kind of information would be used alongside more traditional intelligence - such as that gathered from human spies. "Cyber isn't usually the decisive weapon on its own; it's a force multiplier that helps shape the information environment and supports operations happening on the ground," said Tal Kollender, former Israeli military cyber-defence specialist and founder of cybersecurity platform Remedio. In a press conference given after the initial strikes, operatives in US Cyber Command and US Space Command were described by Gen Caine as the "first movers", disrupting and "blinding Iran's ability to see, communicate and respond". Some commentators suggest mobile phone towers were jammed or shut off to prevent the Ayatollah's security team from being warned about incoming jets, for example. This is not confirmed but we have seen this in other conflicts, such as the war in Ukraine. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth also boasted during a more recent press conference that members of the Iranian military "can't talk or communicate, let alone mount a coordinated and sustained offensive". The comments echo the words of President Trump when praising the success of the abduction of Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro. "The lights of Caracas were largely turned off due to a certain expertise that we have," he said after that operation. It has not been confirmed if the president was referring to a cyber-attack, but in the newly-published US Cyber Strategy he went further in praising his cyber forces for that specific operation, saying that they rendered "our adversaries blind and uncomprehending during a flawless military operation". Israel is also being accused of hacking a popular Iranian prayer-timing app called BadeSaba which has 5 million downloads. Reuters reported that a push notification was sent to users just as the bombs began to hit saying "help has arrived". Secretary Hegseth spoke this week about the continuing operation of "hunting for more systems to kill" - and cyber may well play a role in this stage of the war with operatives using open source intelligence, satellite imagery analysis and cyber-espionage to locate military targets in Iran. The use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools are probably being heavily employed in this work too. A possible hint of this came again from Hegseth who praised an intelligence operative he saw in action. "I was talking to a young colonel who's iterating on how we target and how we find and fix different aspects of what the Iranians are trying to do," he said, being careful not to give away too much detail. The US and Israel have a long history of carrying out significant cyber attacks against Iran and are famously secretive about them. For example, officials are still cagey about the infamous destructive Stuxnet hack on Iran's uranium enrichment facilities in 2010. Israel has also been accused of causing a meltdown at steel plants in Iran in 2022 under the guise of hacktivist group Predatory Sparrow. "If a country openly describes its capabilities or specific operations, it risks revealing techniques, access points, or intelligence sources that could be shut down quickly by adversaries," said Kollender. "In cyber, the value of a capability often depends on the other side not knowing exactly how it works," she added. Despite this, Dr Louise Marie Hurel from the Royal United Services Institute has been pleasantly surprised by the information the US is disclosing. But she argues the war has shown that cyber should be talked about in the same way as conventional action to maintain rules of engagement. "This is an opportunity for us to have a more public debate regarding the support and strategic advantage cyber provides in broader military campaigns and crisis. "If cyber is openly acknowledged as integral to the strike package, it can help sharpen the questions about the laws of armed conflict, proportionality, and what counts as a use of force," she said. A puzzling part of the ongoing war is that Iran has largely been visibly absent in the cyber domain. To date, the most notable attack linked to the nation has been the hacking of Stryker, a major US medical technology company, first reported on Wednesday. Iran has long been regarded as a capable cyber power and although the western cyber-security world is braced for attacks either from the state or hackers linked to the state, there has been little activity so far. The Stryker incident saw the company's employee login defaced with a message claiming data had been erased in a 'wiper' attack by an Iran-backed group of activists and repeated by Iran's state broadcaster. In an update on Thursday morning, Stryker said it was working to end the disruption and said its products were safe to use. It seems implausible that Iran is holding back in this war - so either they have been incapacitated by reported Israeli strikes, or they have been overestimated. Their reputation has been earned by past attacks like the 2012 hack of long-time rival Saudi Arabia's oil giant Aramco which used wiper malware to destroy 30,000 computers. On Wednesday it was reported that an Iranian-linked hacking group, Handala, had hit medical technology firm Stryker with a so-called wiper malware attack. As well as wiper attacks, Iran has been accused of attempting to meddle with critical national infrastructure to cause physical harm. Hurel cautions against writing off Iran's ability to retaliate either directly or through vigilante hacker groups. "I wouldn't jump to conclusions regarding Iran as we have seen considerable hacktivist activity, and public reporting has previously shown that patriotic hacker personas have sometimes been used as a facade for state-linked groups," she said. Sign up for our Tech Decoded newsletter to follow the world's top tech stories and trends. Outside the UK? Sign up here. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
When US President Donald Trump began strikes on Iran, killing Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei in the process, he told Iranians to "take over your government". "It will be yours to take," Trump said. "This will be probably your only chance for generations." But as the war between the US and Israel and Iran has deepened over the past two weeks, Iranians have received sharply different messages about what may happen if they do take action. Encouragement from figures outside Iran has come as reports have emerged of an increased security and police presence in cities across the country, with officials of the Islamic Republic warning against any possible gatherings or protests. Earlier this week, Iran's Police Chief, Brigadier General Ahmadreza Radan, warned that his forces would treat anyone who takes to the streets "at the enemy's request" as an "enemy". "All our forces have their fingers on the trigger and are ready to defend the revolution and support their people and their country," Radan added. Separately, a presenter on Iran's state television Channel Three addressed opponents of the Islamic Republic and those who might protest against the government. "When the dust of this sedition settles, we will come after you," the presenter said. "Confiscating your property will be the least of it. We will make you and your families pay, whether you are inside the country or abroad." And on 8 March, Iran's Prosecutor General Office issued a statement warning Iranians living abroad that if they cooperate with what it described as "hostile enemies", they could face severe punishment. Citing Iran's law on the "intensification of punishment for espionage and cooperation with Israel and hostile countries", the statement stressed that any "operational activity, intelligence cooperation or espionage" for such countries could result not only in the confiscation of property but also the death penalty. These threats are a stark reminder of the threats faced by Iranians if they do protest against the government. During weeks of anti-government protests in December and January, at least 7,000 protesters were killed in an unprecedented crackdown by security forces, human rights groups say. Meanwhile, figures outside Iran have tried to encourage Iranians to take action against their government, at a precarious moment for the clerical establishment. On Tuesday, Reza Pahlavi, the exiled son of Iran's last shah, urged people in Iran to obtain essential supplies as soon as possible and wait for what he called his "final call". In a video message, he said: "For your own safety, leave the streets and remain in your homes. Continue strikes and do not go to work. To show your unity, keep up the night-time chants [against the authorities] with strength." Pahlavi also addressed members of Iran's military and security forces, saying: "This is the final opportunity to separate yourselves from the forces of repression and join the people." His call came as the security atmosphere inside Iran has intensified. As an internet blackout has continued, checkpoints have been set up in many neighbourhoods and streets. On Wednesday, Iran's semi-official Fars News Agency, which is close to the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), alleged that Israeli drones had targeted several checkpoints in Tehran. The agency said a number of armed personnel were killed in the attacks and, quoting what it described as unofficial sources, said "around 10" people had died. Fars said the strikes targeted checkpoints in several districts and cited an "informed source" who claimed the operation was intended to weaken the security presence in Tehran and create conditions for unrest or anti-government protests. The report also alleged the operation involved "monarchists", referring to supporters of Pahlavi. As the military strikes continue, concerns about civilian casualties and rising tensions in the Middle East have grown. Many observers have warned about the broader consequences of the war for civilian lives, regional security and global energy markets. Since hostilities began, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has also addressed the people of Iran, saying Israel would "create conditions that will allow you to take your destiny into your own hands". Netanyahu this week also added: "This is a unique opportunity for you to overthrow the regime of the ayatollahs and gain your freedom." The competing messages highlight the intense pressure surrounding Iran as the conflict deepens. Authorities inside the country are warning against any dissent, while voices abroad are encouraging Iranians to see the moment as an opportunity for change. As the war continues and tensions rise, millions of people inside the country are watching events unfold while weighing the risks of what may come next. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The shockwaves of a war being fought nearly 3,000km away are now reaching India's kitchens. As the US-Israeli strikes on Iran disrupt energy shipments through the Strait of Hormuz, supplies of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) are tightening across India, forcing restaurants to cut menus, shorten hours and in some cases shut down altogether. Social media is awash with video clips showing queues outside cooking-gas dealers across Indian cities and towns as worries over fuel supplies spread. Commercial LPG users appear the worst hit: the sharpest squeeze is in restaurant kitchens. "The situation is dire. Cooking gas simply isn't available," says Manpreet Singh of the National Restaurant Association of India, which represents about 500,000 restaurants. Most eateries run either on commercial LPG cylinders or piped gas, he says, and the shortages are now being felt across the country. "A lot of restaurants have closed - some in Delhi, many in the south [of the country]. People are switching to coal and wood and electric cookers to keep kitchens going." In Mumbai, media reports say up to a fifth of hotels and restaurants are already fully or partly shut as commercial LPG supplies tighten. In the southern cities of Bengaluru and Chennai, some eateries say their gas stocks have dwindled with little backup. "We can only make coffee and nothing else - it is nothing less than pathetic. Businesses are going to suffer," says Haroon Sait, who runs an artisan bakery and restaurant chain in Bengaluru. Restaurant operators are scrambling to adapt. "Menus are being curtailed, some are cutting lunch service and opening only for dinner," Singh says, adding that closures are fluctuating as supplies ebb and flow. "Three restaurants in Delhi were shut yesterday - two have already reopened. It's a fluid situation." Retailers report a surge in sales of electric cookers, with some saying they are running out of them. Yet, the government insists there is no shortage. India has more than 300 million domestic LPG users and officials say supplies are being redirected to households as tensions from the war in the Gulf ripple through energy markets. Roughly 60% of India's LPG is imported, and about 90% of those shipments pass through the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow Gulf chokepoint now effectively closed by the conflict. The oil ministry says that it ordered refineries on 8 March to maximise LPG output for household consumption, lifting domestic production by about 25%. Non-domestic supply is being prioritised for essential sectors such as hospitals and educational institutions, while distribution will be "fair and transparent". "Some panic booking and hoarding has been triggered by misinformation. The normal delivery cycle for domestic LPG remains about two-and-a-half days," says Sujata Sharma, a senior official in the petroleum ministry. Now the anxiety is spreading beyond kitchens. On X, a widely shared video from Chennai shows a long, snaking queue of motorbikes outside a petrol pump. "The panic is real," the caption reads. According to data from Kpler, maritime intelligence firm, concerns about India's broader fuel supplies may be overstated. India imports 90% of its oil. Around half of its crude oil imports - about 2.5-2.7 million barrels a day - travel through the strait, largely from Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. Even if crude flows through the Strait of Hormuz are disrupted, the gap could be partly offset by higher imports of discounted Russian crude, according to Sumit Ritolia, a refinery and oil markets analyst at Kpler. Based on vessel tracking and credible market sources, Kpler says incremental Russian crude imports in March could reach around 1-1.2 million barrels a day, narrowing India's effective shortfall from exposure to the Strait of Hormuz to about 1.6 million barrels a day. "Around 25-30 million Russian oil barrels are currently floating on ships in the Indian Ocean and, with only India and China as major buyers, those barrels remain a ready fallback," Ritola told me earlier this week. That flexibility has not gone unnoticed in Washington. US Ambassador to India Sergio Gor said in a post on X that India had been "a great partner in maintaining stable oil prices around the world", adding that the US recognises the country's continued purchases of Russian crude as part of that effort. That's not all. India is also one of the world's largest exporters of refined fuels. In 2025, its net exports of refined products averaged about 1.1 million barrels a day, and refiners have increasingly diversified crude sourcing from alternative suppliers. "This means that refined product supply for domestic demand remains comfortable, and there are currently no indications that India will struggle to meet internal consumption requirements," says Ritola. The real vulnerability is LPG, analysts say. India consumes roughly one million barrels a day, but produces only 40-45% domestically, importing the rest - 80–90% of it through Hormuz. Refineries can tweak operations to squeeze out a bit more LPG, but even a 10-20% boost would only lift domestic supply to about 47-50% of demand, leaving the country heavily reliant on imports, according to Ritola. In short: "Crude supply risk can be partially mitigated through diversification and Russia flows. Refined product supply remains relatively comfortable. LPG availability is the real variable to monitor in the coming weeks." What may be intensifying the anxiety on the ground is not just tight supply but patchy deliveries - and the familiar spectre of hoarding. Singh of the National Restaurant Association of India alleges opportunistic profiteering. "Retailers are misusing the situation - black-marketing cylinders and selling them at a premium. In one small town, I heard of cylinders being hoarded and auctioned off." For now, India's oil supplies may be cushioned by global trade flows. But in kitchens across the country, the more immediate question is simple: how to get the next cylinder. Follow BBC News India on Instagram, YouTube, Twitter and Facebook. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A man has told the BBC that people who rely on heating oil are being "held to ransom" by suppliers. Keith Bainbridge, from Virginia Water in Surrey, contacted BBC Your Voice to say that the price of his heating oil had more than doubled following the outbreak of war in the Middle East. "It is scandalous," he added. "In times of crisis you can expect some increases, but for heating oil this has been exorbitant. We're being taken for a ride." The UK and Ireland Fuel Distributors Association said its members were doing "everything they can" to support oil-heated homes in a volatile market. It added that shifts in wholesale prices were reflected quickly in customer prices because distributors bought almost daily. "We have also seen a very large and unexpected increase in demand," the trade association said. Bainbridge told the BBC he was avoiding using his heating oil and would not buy any more. "I don't know how long this is going to go on for," he said. Jason Barge told BBC Radio Kent recent "ridiculous" price increases were affecting his home and business, which both run on heating oil. "We've got to budget now for an extra nearly £1,000 a tank," he said. "It's quite a lot of money to find." Barge added the increased costs were putting "real pressure" on his mechanics - the Old Station Garage - in Horsmonden. "We're already struggling as it is. The cost of help. The cost of electricity. Everything's all going up," he said. Some 1.5 million homes in the UK are heated with oil rather than gas, according to the Competition and Markets Authority. The government body said it had received complaints that heating oil suppliers were cancelling orders and then offering customers new quotes at significantly increased prices. It had also been told of price increases for automated deliveries, which are triggered when fuel tank levels drop. John Milne, the MP for Horsham in West Sussex, told the BBC heating oil users tended to be older, more vulnerable and living in rural areas. He urged the government to remove value added tax (VAT) on the fuel in the short term. But Milne added that something similar to the Ofgem price cap - which limits the maximum amount energy suppliers can charge - was needed to "control price shocks in the future". "The price gouging we are seeing is totally unacceptable," said Chancellor of the Exchequer Rachel Reeves. "Whether it is petrol at the pumps or heating oil, there is no excuse for any business to use this as an opportunity to rip off customers." Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook or X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two foreign fuel tankers in the Gulf were hit by explosions on Thursday, authorities say. One person was killed and another 38 people were rescued after the incident near the Iraqi port of Umm Qasr, which appeared to be caused by Iranian boats rigged with explosives, Reuters and CNN reported. Ship tracking websites show the two tankers suspected of being attacked surrounded by rescue boats. Oil ports have stopped operations following the attack, Iraqi authorities added. The explosions came after maritime authorities said three cargo vessels were hit by "unknown projectiles" in the Strait of Hormuz, a vital corridor for global oil shipping. Separately, an unidentified projectile struck a container ship 35 nautical miles off the coast of Jebel Al in the United Arab Emirates, according to the United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO). The agency said that all crew were reported safe and that, "No environmental impact has been reported at this time." Among the three cargo vessels that were hit was a Thai-flagged vessel, which was 11 nautical miles north of Oman. A fire broke out on board and the Royal Thai Navy said the 23 crew members were rescued. Iran has claimed responsibility, saying the ship's crew ignored warnings. The second vessel was a Japanese-flagged container ship that was struck 25 nautical miles off the coast of the United Arab Emirates, sustaining minor damage. A third cargo vessel was hit about 50 nautical miles north-west of Dubai, according to UKMTO. The attacks came on the same day as 32 countries voted unanimously to the release of 400 million barrels of oil due to the "unprecedented" situation, the International Energy Agency (IEA) announced. Since the US and Israel attacked Iran late last month, instability in the Gulf and Strait of Hormuz - both critical waters for international trade - has caused traffic to drop and global energy prices to soar. Iran has said it would "not allow even a single litre of oil" heading for the US, Israel and their partners to pass through the strait. Following the attacks, a spokesperson for Iran's military command, Ebrahim Zolfaqari, said: "Get ready for the oil barrel to be at $200 because the oil price depends on the regional stability which you have destabilised". There have been 13 suspected Iranian attacks on vessels operating around the Gulf since the war began. G7 leaders said in a statement on Wednesday that they were working to "explore the possibility of escorting ships when the right security conditions are in place". US Central Command said civilians should stay away from Iranian ports along the Strait of Hormuz because Tehran was using sites to conduct military operations. Trump described fluctuations in the price of oil on Wednesday as a "matter of war" and later said "oil prices are already coming back down". He has previously warned Iran of unprecedented military consequences if it mined the strait to stop Gulf oil passing through, saying the US military could escort ships. The decision made by IEA members on Wednesday to release 400 million barrels of oil was to offset the "effective closure" of the shipping channel - through which about 20% of the world's oil usually passes - the body's executive director, Fatih Birol, said. Elsewhere in the region, Iran said it unleashed another volley of retaliatory attacks across the Gulf on Wednesday, with targets including a major oilfield in Saudi Arabia and Dubai International Airport. Officials said two drones had been intercepted near the airport, injuring four people. The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) also said it launched its "most devastating and heaviest operation" including attacks to US bases in Qatar, Kuwait and Iraq. Saudi Arabia reported that it had intercepted seven ballistic missiles, most heading to the Prince Sultan Air Base, while the country also stopped two drones heading for an oil field. In Oman, several fuel storage tanks on the post of Salalah were struck by drones according to state media. British ⁠maritime ​security firm ​Ambrey says there was no damage to merchant vessels, the Reuters news agency reported. The Israeli Defence Force said it struck a number of Hezbollah targets that were command centres and weapon stores in the Dahieh suburb of Beirut in Lebanon on Wednesday morning. Lebanon's health ministry said on Wednesday that seven people were killed and 23 injured following strikes on villages in the Bekaa Valley in eastern Lebanon. Also on Wednesday, the son of Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian wrote on Telegram that the country's new Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei was "safe" after reports he had been injured. A senior Israeli official told Reuters that its assessment was that Khamenei was lightly wounded during US and Israeli attacks, while Iran's ambassador to Cyprus told the Guardian the supreme leader was injured. Khamenei has not issued any statements or appeared in public since his appointment on Sunday. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth, a military veteran and former Fox News host, has brought a combative style to his moment in the spotlight as de facto spokesman for the war in Iran. He speaks of how Operation Epic Fury is "crushing the enemy", whom he labels "terrorist cowards". "We have only just begun to hunt," Hegseth, 45, told one news conference of the US-Israeli strikes, which killed several leaders of the Islamic republic. "We are punching them while they're down, which is exactly how it should be," he said. The second-youngest defence secretary in US history, Hegseth has weathered controversies, including revelations he inadvertently divulged details of air strikes in Yemen to a reporter on a chat app, and claims of misconduct aired during his confirmation hearings. But as the public face of President Donald Trump's largest military action yet in the Middle East, the former morning show host's media skills have come to the fore. Whereas his predecessors spoke in more measured, technocratic language, Hegseth presents himself as an unapologetic frontman for the world's most powerful military. Occupying a cabinet position last year rebranded as secretary of war, he projects a sense of invincible American might and what he calls the "warrior ethos". Hegseth sometimes quotes Christian scripture and refers to the military as "my American brothers". Matthew Walling, chief executive of the American Security Project, a think tank, told the BBC: "There's a degree of machismo to how he speaks, and that's part of the public image that he presents of himself." Hegseth's confidence and conviction may appeal to Americans "who are looking for certainty", he said. The Minneapolis-born, Ivy League graduate served as an infantry platoon leader in Guantanamo Bay and Iraq, where he was awarded the Bronze Star Medal. He later deployed to Afghanistan as a counterinsurgency instructor in Kabul. At Princeton University, he focused on politics for his degree, while writing for the campus conservative journal, The Princeton Tory. He received a post-graduate degree in public policy from Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. Hegseth's political experience was previously limited to an unsuccessful 2012 run for the Republican Senate nomination in Minnesota. After his military service ended, he returned home and briefly led two veterans' charities. But it was as co-host of the Fox & Friends weekend show for eight years that he caught the eye of one regular viewer: Donald Trump. He praised Hegseth's 2024 book, The War on Warriors, for exposing "the leftwing betrayal" of America's military. Yet he barely won confirmation as defence secretary, even though the Senate is controlled by Trump's fellow Republicans. The thrice-married father-of-four was grilled about allegations of sexual misconduct, infidelity and heavy drinking, which he cast as a smear campaign. Critics sought to link his tattoos of symbols from the Crusades with far-right extremism. Hegseth said the body ink merely reflected his Christian faith. Some also questioned if he had the experience to run a department with a nearly $1tn budget - the largest in the US government – and three million employees. During Operation Epic Fury, Trump and some members of his administration have been accused of failing to articulate a cohesive rationale for military action in Iran. Hegseth, though, has repeatedly laid out the operation's objectives: to eliminate Iran's weapons, to destroy Iran's navy and to ensure Iran cannot make nuclear weapons. But some accused him of insensitivity when he took issue with reporting on US casualties, saying: "When a few drones get through or tragic things happen, it's front-page news. I get it. The press only wants to make the president look bad." Recent polls indicate many Republican voters approve of Hegseth. Not everyone is impressed, though. Brett Bruen, president of the Global Situation Room, a crisis communications agency, and a former diplomat with the Obama administration, acknowledged the defence secretary is a skilled communicator. But he criticised Hegseth's "brashness, the bravado, the bulldozing of questions" in briefings. "We're at war and we need a leader at the Pentagon who tells us what is happening and why it is happening and what we should be doing to prepare for what comes next," Bruen told the BBC. "And he seems incapable of providing that basic information." Hegseth faced his first controversy soon after being sworn in, when a journalist was mistakenly added by another official to a Signal messaging group in which the defence secretary posted details of plans for an attack on the Iran-backed Houthi group in Yemen. Members of Congress and others called for him to be fired, saying he had endangered US military members and flouted protocols. Hegseth, however, clung to his job. A personal bugbear of his has been ending what he calls "woke garbage" in the military. During confirmation hearings, the culture warrior was lambasted by Democrats for arguing that diversity policies had degraded America's fighting capability. Hegseth has renamed bases and severed defence ties with universities over diversity programmes, including his alma mater, Harvard. He again drew scrutiny over US raids on alleged drug boats in the Caribbean and Pacific. The Pentagon chief rejected claims he gave an order to "kill them all" during a follow-up military strike on a vessel. In a video, Democratic lawmaker veterans urged the military to refuse any illegal orders. Hegseth called the clip treasonous and took steps to demote retired Navy Captain and Arizona Senator Mark Kelly. The legal battle over Kelly – one of several lawsuits against Hegseth's defence department – grinds on. His Pentagon has also rewritten its rules of engagement with the media, imposing new reporting restrictions and banning photojournalists for pictures of Hegseth deemed "unflattering". But the defence secretary appears intent on showing that he – like his vision for the US military – is not the type to back down from a fight. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
I know what can happen when an American president calls for an uprising and then doesn't get involved when it starts. That's because I've seen it before. In 1991, on 15 February to be precise, the first President George Bush made a speech that he probably regretted until the end of his days. It was at the factory in Massachusetts where they built Patriot interceptors, which were making their debut as the most advanced weapon of that first Gulf war. Patriots, which shoot down incoming missiles, still have a vital role in Ukraine and in the war with Iran. When Bush went to the Patriot factory, Desert Storm, the massive military operation to drive Iraqi troops out of Kuwait was under way. The combined air forces of the US, the UK and their allies were hammering them -and Iraq's cities. Tens of thousands of allied troops were massed on Iraq and Kuwait's borders for the ground war, which was still nine days away. I was in Baghdad, my hands full reporting the war. A few days earlier the Americans had killed more than 400 civilians in an airstrike on a shelter in the suburb of Amiriyah. The Americans and British claimed, wrongly, that it was a command centre, but I'd seen the bodies, almost all children, women and old men, and seen the still smouldering shelter, so I knew that wasn't true. Back then, I didn't notice Bush's speech. But 35 years later I think about it every time I hear Donald Trump and Benjamin Netanyahu telling the people of Iran that they're being given a once in a generation chance to overthrow the Islamic Republic, without promising them direct military support. Bush was at the Patriot factory to praise the workers who made what was seen as a miracle weapon. In a couple of quick paragraphs, he said Iraq's ruler Saddam Hussein should comply with the United Nations resolutions to pull out of Kuwait. Unlike the current war with Iran, the first Gulf war had the legal authorisation of the UN Security Council. Bush then uttered a couple of lines that had immense consequences. "There's another way for the bloodshed to stop...and that is for the Iraqi military and the Iraqi people to take matters into their own hands and force Saddam Hussein, the dictator, to step aside…" The workers whooped and applauded, and the president went back to rallying Americans who were in their first major war since the disaster of Vietnam. But some Iraqis took him seriously. After Iraq's army was expelled from Kuwait, a ceasefire left Hussein in power. Iraqi Shias in the south and Kurds in the north of the country started an armed revolt against his regime. The Americans, the British and the other nations making up the coalition watched what was happening and did not intervene. The Iraqi regime was badly damaged by the war, but it had been allowed to keep its helicopters and they led a counter offensive that killed thousands of Kurds and Iraqi Shia Muslims who believed that their rebellions had the blessing of the US president. But they made the mistake of assuming he would intervene to make sure the uprising succeeded. By then I was in the freezing, snowy mountains in the Kurdish north. Tens of thousands of Kurds fled there - with horrific stories of killing by Hussein's men - and every morning I saw fathers bringing down the bodies of their children, small bundles wrapped in blankets, who had died on mountainsides in the night of exposure or dysentery. The Americans, the British, the French and others in the end were shamed into a big humanitarian operation to rescue the Kurds. In the south, the Shia were not so lucky. The consequences of that first Gulf war went on for years; a commitment to fly air patrols to enforce a no-fly zone, permanent American bases and in Saudi Arabia a young Osama Bin Laden, furious that foreign troops had in his eyes violated the land of Islam's holiest shrines, was putting together the organisation that became Al Qaeda. Each Gulf war planted the seeds of the next. In 2003, the second President Bush ousted Hussein, completing what he believed was his father's unfinished business. Iran was a big winner in that war. The Americans, obligingly, had removed its bitter enemy, Saddam Hussein. This third Gulf war is aimed at undoing the Islamic Republic's rise to regional power that accelerated after 2003. The bombing is designed to smash its military and nuclear ambitions, which Israel, especially, regards as a threat to its existence. Trump's decision to go to war, for the first time as a joint venture with Israel, is unpopular in America, latest polls show, and alarming for America's allies, with the exception of course of the Israelis. What if the sceptics are wrong? Perhaps analysts and commentators have let their distaste for Trump cloud their judgement. Maybe it doesn't matter that he insults allies whose soldiers fought and died alongside Americans in other Middle Eastern wars, or that sometimes he tells lies. He claimed that Iran could have fired a Tomahawk missile in the attack on a school that Iran says killed more than 165 people, including many schoolgirls. Iran doesn't have Tomahawk missiles. All that, Trump and his supporters argue, is fake news. They say higher petrol prices for a while will be worth it, if this war stops Iran getting a nuclear weapon and long-range ballistic missiles that would threaten not just Gulf states and Israel but also Europe and even America. The US Secretary of Defence, Pete Hegseth - rebranded as Secretary of War -slammed European scruples about the use of force without UN authorisation or a convincing case of self-defence. Hegseth laid into "so many of our traditional allies who wring their hands and clutch their pearls, hemming and hawing about the use of force." But it's already clear that ending the war will not be simple, and its consequences are at best uncertain and at worst dangerous. Israel has its own agenda. Netanyahu is clear eyed about what he wants. He believes he can achieve a lifelong dream - to destroy the Islamic Republic of Iran. In a speech on the war's second day, he said that with 'the assistance' of the United States, Israel was able to do "what I have yearned to do for forty years: smite the terror regime hip and thigh. This is what I promised and this is what we shall do." Like Trump, he's called for a popular uprising in Iran. Israel does not seem concerned about Iran descending into violent chaos. It might even be a good outcome for them. America, Israel and their supporters believe that removing the Iranian regime will make the world safer. They could be right. It's an unsavoury, violent regime that in January killed thousands of fellow Iranians in the streets for marching against repression, corruption and economic collapse. It enriched uranium to levels that could be turned into a nuclear bomb. But they're wrong if the war's consequences touch off a catastrophe on the scale of the one that started with the invasion of Iraq in 2003. Removing Hussein, Iraq's dictator, without a workable plan to replace his regime led to hundreds of thousands of deaths in years of sectarian killing and civil war and a vacuum of power that incubated the jihadist extremists who morphed into Islamic State, whose successors will be looking at ways to take advantage of this new crisis. Netanyahu has contemplated war with Iran many times but has always recognised that Israel would need the help of an American president prepared to go to war too. Previous presidents - including Bill Clinton, the first one Netanyahu dealt with as prime minister thirty years ago - would not do it. They were content to contain and deter Iran, keeping war in reserve if it really did try to get a nuclear weapon. And they didn't act to a very large degree because of what is happening now; an Iranian response designed to defy American power, to spread the war, cause huge economic damage and disrupt carefully constructed alliances between the US and Gulf countries, which tried to stop the war happening. Now Iran has turned them into targets. With China waiting in the wings, they might reassess the value of an alliance with the US and rapprochement with Israel, especially if Trump declares victory and leaves Saudi Arabia and the others to clear up the mess. Trump, who promised Americans no more forever wars, might find himself keeping forces in the Middle East that he would rather were free to face China. It is more straightforward for the Israelis. They see the best opportunity they have ever had to reorder the Middle East and strengthen their position as the unchallenged military hegemon. They are aiming to destroy Iran's Lebanese ally, Hezbollah, once and for all, something they've tried and failed to do since the 1990s. While the attention of the world is on Iran, Israel is also taking more steps towards the effective annexation of the occupied West Bank. Trump might learn that starting wars is much easier than ending them. It is hard to know when to stop if you don't know exactly where you're going. It is even harder to do that when the US, the world's most powerful country seems to have gone to war without a coherent political strategy, under a president who the evidence suggests is making it up as he goes along. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Snow fell in parts of Tehran on Tuesday night, blanketing the Iranian capital with a layer of white after air strikes on oil depots caused days of dark skies and black rain. But life goes on, even as the war drags on. Sahar, a woman in her 20s, told BBC Persian that she was spending most days sheltering at home in Tehran, cooking, reading, and playing a life simulation video game. "I think my creativity has increased during the war. I'm constantly stressed and end up building prettier homes in the game," she said. Sahar - whose name, as with the other contributors, has been changed for safety reasons - found out on Tuesday that a woman she had gone to school with had been killed. "Her body hasn't been found. I felt horrible after hearing it," she said. "Why do we have to experience such horror when we're in the prime years of our youth? I just want this to end before Nowruz. My favourite days in life are the early days of spring." Fewer than 10 days remain until Nowruz, the Persian New Year festival, which marks the arrival of spring. It is usually a time when families gather to celebrate. Markets and streets across Iran are crowded with people buying sweets and nuts for guests ahead of the holiday. But this year that has not been the case, according to those living in Tehran. "It doesn't feel like the run-up to Nowruz. But even under missiles, we carry on living. We have no choice but to live," said Peyman, a man in his 30s. "The metro is empty. So empty that for every person there are 30 or 40 empty seats. The streets are very quiet as well... so quiet that you could easily play football in the middle of a street," he added. Another man in his 30s said: "My sleep schedule depends on the bombings now. I go to sleep at around six or seven in the morning and wake up at 2pm. Sometimes, I have to go out to buy groceries, but Tehran is very empty." Tehran and its surrounding province have a population of 14 million, but some residents have left to seek safety elsewhere since the US and Israel began attacking Iran on 28 February. Some headed north towards the Caspian Sea, where there have been fewer attacks. Mina, a woman in her 20s, is one of them. She is now in the city of Rasht. "My family kept insisting we go to Rasht to stay with my grandmother, but my best friend and flatmate didn't want to leave Tehran. I felt guilty about leaving without her, so I didn't want us to go," she recalled. "The night they hit the [oil] depots, our flat was shaking all the way to the front door. All the windows lit up as if it were morning." She added: "I kept thinking that if anything happened to my family, it would be my fault for saying we shouldn't go to Rasht. "The day after, we finally went to Rasht, in a car covered with patchy stains from the polluted rain. "My best friend decided to stay in Tehran with her family, but I call her every day. We talk on the phone about all the exciting things we'll do after the war is over. Maybe we'll dye our hair lighter after this." It is still very difficult to contact those inside Iran amid the internet outage imposed by the government at the start of the war, but tech-savvy residents have been using Starlink devices and sharing their connection with others. The satellite internet system has become a vital communications lifeline for some trying to contact the outside world. It operates like a mobile phone mast in space, using a constellation of satellites to communicate with small dishes on the ground that have a built-in WiFi router. Using Starlink in Iran carries a punishment of up to two years in prison, and authorities have reportedly been searching for the dishes to stop people from connecting. Mehran, in his 20s and living in Tehran, said he had been sharing his Starlink connection with at least 25 other people. He added that he had hidden the device "somewhere remote" to prevent the authorities from "finding or jamming" it. He said he had allowed loved ones to connect to the service for free, though internet access is being sold on the Telegram messaging app for around $6 (£4.50) for1GB of data - a high price in a country where the average monthly salary is estimated to be between $200 and $300. Shima, a woman in her 20s in Tehran who uses a Starlink connection to get online, said: "You have to buy it from someone you trust, otherwise there's a chance they will cut off your internet after you've paid a hefty sum." Monitoring organisation NetBlocks said on Wednesday that the internet blackout in Iran had entered its 12th day, with connectivity still at just 1% of ordinary levels after 264 hours. "The ridiculously expensive Starlink VPN I bought for emergencies takes a long time to connect, making me doubt whether it was worth spending so much money," Shima said. "But at least I can tell my loved ones abroad that I haven't burnt to a crisp and I'm still alive." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Increased transport costs driven by the conflict in Iran will be passed on to consumers, the boss of the world's second biggest shipping company has said. Vincent Clerc, chief executive of Maersk, told the BBC that the Danish shipping giant has mechanisms in place so if fuel prices go up or down, that is passed on to the company's customers. "So what it means is that ultimately, in this case, these increases will pass to our customers and will pass on to the consumers." Since the US-Israel war with Iran began, oil prices have soared close to $120 a barrel before easing, but at $87 crude is nearly 20% higher than it was before hostilities broke out. Maersk is dominated by its container shipping arm, which plays a vital role in moving goods such as toys, clothing and electronics around the world. The war has brought transportation through the vital Strait of Hormuz route to a standstill. Before the conflict, around a fifth of global oil supplies travelled through the route. Iranian government spokesperson Fatemeh Mohajerani justified the blockade by saying the country needed to maximise "all resources" while in a state of war. At the same time, the world's biggest shipping lines are also avoiding passage through the Red Sea because of security threats. It is causing widespread disruption to the global economy with firms such as Maersk  sending its vessels on longer - and more expensive - voyages around the Cape of Good Hope. China's government has already balked at the higher cost of moving goods.  On Tuesday, the country's transport ministry said it had called in executives from Maersk and another firm to discuss their "international shipping operations". Clerc said the extra costs work out at around $200 for a standard 20ft shipping container which can mean "anything from a 15% to a 20% increase on some of the freight cost". Maersk's rivals MSC and Hapag-Lloyd have also increased charges. Clerc said the disruption has had a "profound impact" on Maersk, with many customers not receiving regular deliveries and is "extremely disruptive" in a region that is heavily reliant on imported food. It means there are a lot of logistical challenges to "keep the food moving" and making sure it "continues to be on the shelves of supermarkets" rather than going to waste as it sits on ships or in ports. Asked if he was concerned about product shortages, he said "we've seen a fantastic reaction" with land bridges and trucks trying to keep things on the go. However, it is hard to shift the same volume by land as by sea and Clerc said that while there was enough capacity to keep the most important goods moving a lot of exports like petrochemicals are "going to have to take the back seat for a while". Governments including the US and France have suggested that naval escorts could be a way to open the waterways again. Clerc said a better option would be for the US, Israel and Iran to come to "some kind of deal" to restore trade routes in the Middle East. While a naval escort might be a "temporary reprieve" to get ships moving, Clerc stressed he was not willing to put staff at risk. "You're very close from the Iranian coastline, you don't have a lot of time to react so you would need a significant presence from the Navy to be able to provide a shield all the way through," he said. "I personally have a hard time seeing that this is the permanent solution to the situation because the traffic is very important [and] the strait is very narrow" Data from the logistics firm Kuehne+Nagel Seaexplorer suggests 132 ships remained stuck in the Gulf as of Monday, 9 March. The exact number is hard to confirm with reports suggesting that some vessels have turned off their transponders to hide their locations. Meanwhile, it was only a few weeks ago that major shipping lines such as Maersk started a phased return to the Red Sea route. Threats of Houthi attacks on ships linked to the Hamas-Israel conflict led companies to stop using the passage for two years. Any ships there or in the Strait of Hormuz are vulnerable. Clerc said: "Ultimately we need to get back to something where freedom of navigation and peaceful navigation is restored." You can get in touch by following this link The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The first hint something was up, was when we spotted a small group of Iranian footballers in the hotel lobby. We counted at least three players, wearing black headscarves and dressed in the team's grey shirts, chatting with four people we suspected at the time - and now know - were Iranians from the local community here on Australia's Gold Coast. What stood out at the time was the ease with which they were talking together. They were casual, smiley, sometimes laughing. They looked comfortable. How was this possible? Much had been said about the 26-member squad being watched, not given access to the internet, unable to talk to anyone outside their group. So that was our biggest question mark. Where was their minder? Concerns about the team's safety were first sparked when footage of a state TV host emerged calling them "traitors" who ought to be punished after they declined to sing the national anthem at their first AFC Women's Asian Cup match last week. Those worries only grew after the team were seen singing the anthem in their two subsequent matches. The implication was they felt pressure - direct or otherwise - to do so. After their elimination from the tournament on Sunday and the prospect of their imminent return to Iran, the media debate also focused on what repercussions their families might face if they chose to stay. A network of Australia-based activists meanwhile kicked into gear, using their contacts to try and communicate with the players in any way possible. "Our community in Queensland did whatever we could," Iranian human rights activist Hesam Orouji told the BBC. He was one of the four people from the Queensland Iranian diaspora we had seen in the hotel lobby talking to players at around 5.30pm on Monday afternoon. Earlier in the day, members of the team had come and gone. There was a small group who had gone for a walk around the resort's vast gardens - and the football pitches which teams staying here had used for practice. But they kept to themselves. That was what we had expected. This gathering that was playing out in front of us was different. A hotel security guard in a blue shirt also joined the group. They talked some more, before the group sauntered casually towards the lobby's automatic doors. Outside, stood several uniformed Australian Federal Police officers. But there had been a police presence all day. It was all so low-key, we assumed the group was going for a bit of fresh air - like their colleagues had done earlier. Less than half an hour later -  two members of the Iranian delegation sprinted across the lobby, and down a stairwell leading to the basement carpark. A player and coach Marziyeh Jafari followed them. The sudden movement in an otherwise tranquil foyer was striking.  We followed, filming on phones. The timestamp shows this was 6.08pm local time. The door at the bottom of the stairs was locked, so the Iranians retreated, looking stressed. The women - we now know it was five of them - had gone. It was a discovery made bang on sunset - just as the team was likely getting together for iftar - the traditional meal to break the fast during Ramadan. Perhaps it was the players not joining them that had alerted them to their escape. What we know now is that the scene witnessed was the result of a long and complicated process which led to five Iranian players seeking asylum. Within hours, Fatemeh Pasandideh, Zahra Ghanbari, Zahra Sarbali, Atefeh Ramazanzadeh, and Mona Hamoudi had been granted humanitarian visas. Later two more people - player Mohaddeseh Zolfi and support staff member Zahra Soltan Meshkeh Kar - also indicated they wanted to remain in Australia.  At some point on Tuesday, they were separated from the rest of the squad at the Gold Coast hotel and taken to a police base near Brisbane airport. They were reunited with the other five - all seven had been promised they would be able to stay permanently here - but then on Wednesday, one woman changed her mind. "In Australia people are able to change their mind. We respect the context in which she had made that decision," Immigration Minister Tony Burke told parliament on Wednesday. Before all this played out, activists had been liaising with Australian Federal Police and hotel security to ensure that the women were first able to confide that they wanted to remain in Australia, and secondly that when they did so, they would be protected. "We went to the stadium chanting [their] name, saying if you want to stay here, we are going to support you," Orouji said. And that, said Orouji, was a game-changer for at least some of the women choosing to seek asylum. "They mentioned that, they said it was great," he says. "It was the first time this big crowd came to the stadium and just supported us - there was lots of energy, motivation about what was going on in Australia." The biggest challenge for Orouji and his friends has been giving the women correct information - and trying to counter misinformation spread by the Iranian regime who are reportedly accompanying the group. "When we said to one of the [remaining members of the team], do you know the women already have their visas, they said no way!" Some women, he said, had been told there was no guarantee they could seek asylum and may have to go to a detention centre instead, as a refugee. Orouji made the initial connections with the players through a family member - but communicating with them wasn't straightforward. "They don't have internet all the time," he explains. "We send a message, we can see they didn't receive the message, and then they get internet, and we count the two blue ticks on WhatsApp." Every member of the Iranian community we spoke to seemed to be finding their own way of communicating with players - reaching out on social media, sending messages when they could. There are more than 85,000 Iranians living in Australia. Many have formed a tight-knit community, Also at the hotel on Monday was migration agent Melody Naghmeh Danai, on standby to assist those choosing to stay about their options.  She'd been at the stadium on Sunday night, keen to show her support as many ways as possible. "Australia is going to support them according to migration law - it's not anything which is extraordinary," she told the BBC during the halftime break. "We are very concerned for their lives, and we are here to support them any way they want." On Monday afternoon, we saw her again at the hotel - dressed in a suit rather than the more casual football fan attire of the night before We said hello - but what she couldn't reveal at the time was  she had been given access to the players in a room at the hotel - using her knowledge of migration law and language skills to set out their options. "They were under a lot of stress. They didn't know what to do, they were worried about their family, their assets in Iran, what is the best decision to make now: 'What if we stay here and we lose all our assets in Iran?'" Danai told ABC News. While activists played a key part, more has emerged about the government's role. A Truth Social post by Donald Trump urging Australia to offer asylum to the players led some to suggest he was the impetus for swift action. In fact delicate operations had been going for several days. Trump - after a 2am phone call to Anthony Albanese - followed up, saying of the prime minister: "He's on it!" Immigration officials had sought to have meetings with the players at their hotel. And though it was widely reported that players were confined to their rooms and were being constantly watched - this does not seem to have been the case. Home Affairs Minister Tony Burke has talked of "very late night conversations" on Sunday evening after offers of a chat were made to the players. "People then started to come down and talk in the foyer of the hotel. They were moving around, at least at that hour, without people watching them," he said. "That's not to say that there wouldn't have been other conversations that were happening privately that we would all view as unacceptable." As those talks were happening, the activists were hard at work. None of the community gave up, even as the remainder of the team headed to the airport to fly out of Australia on Tuesday night. At every airport there was a protest. At every protest, there were tears. And it is increasingly clear that the Australian government was reinforcing this message. Burke, who signed off on the first five players humanitarian visas in a matter of hours, was at Sydney airport before the squad left Australia late on Tuesday night. Here - he said - a "very significant police presence" was used to make sure players were able to be kept separate from minders and meet with immigration staff along with an interpreter - and the opportunity to speak to family in Iran about what to do. "They were given a choice," Burke said. "What we made sure of was that there was no rushing. There was no pressure. Everything was about ensuring the dignity for those individuals to make a choice." Ultimately the remaining team members got on the flight to Kuala Lumpur. From there - eventually - it will be back to Iran and all the uncertainty that brings, leaving behind a football tournament where they became the biggest story - and teammates who they'll perhaps never see again. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Double-murderer Dezi Freeman evaded capture for seven months in the bush but police believe he had help. Australians lose more money to gambling, per capita, than anywhere else in the world. Lawyers for Naveed Akram had argued his mother, brother and sister live in "constant fear". Anthony Albanese used a rare TV address to tell Australians that the "months ahead may not be easy" amid the global effects of the war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Australia says one of the two members of the Iranian football group who had earlier accepted an offer to stay in the country has changed her mind. "One of the two who had made the decision to stay last night, had spoken to some of the teammates who had left and had changed her mind," Immigration Minister Tony Burke told parliament on Wednesday. The two  – one player and one member of support staff - had previously been reunited with another five players who were granted visas to stay over concerns about their safety. The remaining Iranian players left Australia on Tuesday night local time - two days after they were knocked out of the Asian Cup. "In Australia people are able to change their mind. We respect the context in which she had made that decision," Burke said. "Unfortunately, in making that decision, she'd been advised by her teammates and coach to contact the Iranian embassy and to get collected." He said as a result it meant the Iranian embassy knew the location of the other Iranians who had elected to stay. "I immediately gave the instruction for people to be moved, and that's been dealt with immediately," Burke said. He said officials had made sure "that this was her decision, and every question you would want asked, was asked." Some members of the Iranian football delegation had been granted asylum after concerns about the team's safety when they did not sing the national anthem ahead of their match against South Korea last week. Two other members of the team – player Mohaddeseh Zolfi and support staff member Zahra Soltan Meshkeh Kar – were later separated from the rest of the squad at their hotel on the Gold Coast, after indicating they would like to remain. They were then taken to a police facility in Brisbane, Burke had said previously. All the women who stayed were to be fast-tracked to permanent residency, Burke said. The offer to stay was reiterated to "most" of the remainder of the delegation at Sydney Airport before they were due to leave the country on Tuesday night, he continued. Burke said a  "very significant" police presence at Sydney Airport ensured players were separated from minders while they talked to officials one-on-one through a translator, and were given the chance to call family. None of them chose to accept the offer to stay, Burke said, but he added that one person got on the plane "quite late" after conversations with family. "That individual made their own decision," Burke said – noting that there had been no pressure on them to take the flight. He added a small number of the travelling group were not invited to stay – thought to be a reference to be Iranian government minders. "There are some leaving Australia who I am glad are not in Australia," he said. The team arrived at Sydney Airport from the Gold Coast, where the Asia Cup is being held, on Tuesday evening. Members of the Australian-Iranian community gathered there to support them and to protest against them returning to Iran. They said some members of the team had signalled for help. Burke, quoted by the ABC, said Border Force officials had made "multiple representations to the team" before they left Sydney, "including private meetings". Local media reported that at least one person refused to board their later flight to Malaysia on their way back to Iran. But some of the players - who were accompanied by chaperones - reportedly told reporters that they wanted to go back to Iran. Australia's humanitarian visa programme grants permanent protection to refugees and people in humanitarian need. Visa holders can live, work and study in the country. It is not known what repercussions the team and their families might face in Iran after the players refused to sing the national anthem. One conservative commentator on Iranian state media accused them of being "wartime traitors" and called for a harsh punishment. The team did sing the anthem in their last two games before they were eliminated on Sunday, leading critics to believe they had been forced to take part by government officials accompanying them during the tournament as part of the delegation. Earlier on Tuesday, a bus carrying team members was temporarily blocked by activists as it left their hotel on the Gold Coast. Some carried the Lion and Sun flag, which served as the official state flag before the Islamic revolution in Iran. Meanwhile, the five who were first granted humanitarian visas were moved to a safe location by police. Burke named them as Fatemeh Pasandideh, Zahra Ghanbari, Zahra Sarbali, Atefeh Ramazanzadeh, and Mona Hamoudi. Shortly after they left, the BBC witnessed some of their minders running across the hotel to try to find them. "They want to be clear they are not political activists. They are athletes who want to be safe," Burke said, adding that talks with them had been going on over several days. Addressing the other team members before they left Australia, he said: "The same opportunity is there. Australia has taken the Iranian women's soccer team into our hearts. These women are tremendously popular in Australia." "Australians have been moved by the plight of these brave women," Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese told a news conference on Tuesday. "They're safe here, and they should feel at home here." The Iranian players' situation has also come to the attention of US President Donald Trump, who took to his Truth Social platform to demand action. He said Australia should "give asylum" to the women or "the US will take them if you won't." Around an hour later, Trump posted again to say he had spoken to Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese, writing: "five have already been taken care of, and the rest are on their way". The Trump administration put all asylum decisions on hold at the end of last year, and has stopped issuing immigrant visas for citizens from dozens of countries including Iran. It has said the administration wants to bring "an end to the abuse" of the system. Last year, two groups of Iranians - including people whose asylum applications had been unsuccessful - were deported from the US back to Iran. The groups reportedly included members of the LGBT community, who face severe legal and social repercussions in Iran. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Double-murderer Dezi Freeman evaded capture for seven months in the bush but police believe he had help. Australians lose more money to gambling, per capita, than anywhere else in the world. Lawyers for Naveed Akram had argued his mother, brother and sister live in "constant fear". Anthony Albanese used a rare TV address to tell Australians that the "months ahead may not be easy" amid the global effects of the war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US says it has struck multiple Iranian naval vessels, including 16 minelaying vessels operating near the Strait of Hormuz, the world's busiest oil shipping channel. Its effective closure has already lead to a sharp rise in petrol prices, and the White House said the US military was drawing up additional options designed to keep it open. The strikes were part of military action in the country on Tuesday, with US defence secretary Pete Hegseth warning it would be the "most intense" day of strikes thus far. A top Iranian security official said early on Tuesday his country is not scared of what he called "worthless threats" by President Donald Trump. During a Tuesday morning US defence department update on the operation in Iran, Hegseth said US goals include destroying Iran's missile stockpiles, their missile launchers and their defence industrial base; destroying Iran's navy; and permanently denying the country nuclear weapons. He said that in the last 24 hours, Iran has fired the lowest number of missiles since the start of the war. Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen Dan Caine said that Iranian ballistic missile attacks continue to trend downwards. They are "90% from where they started, and one-way attack drones have decreased 83% since the beginning of the operation", he said. Hegseth did not give a timeline on the conflict ending, telling reporters that "our will is endless" but it was up to the president on how long it lasts. He also said this would not be a repeat of the past, when the US became involved in drawn-out conflicts in the Middle East. "This is not 2003," he said. "This is not endless nation-building under those types of quagmires we saw under Bush or Obama. It's not even close. Our generation of soldier will not let that happen again, and nor will this president who very clearly ran against those kinds of never-ending, nebulous scoped missions." On Tuesday, the Pentagon said around 140 US service members have been wounded since the beginning of the Iran war on 28 February. It said most injuries have been minor and 108 service members have already returned to duty, while eight people were severely injured. Seven US service members have died. Iranian officials have vowed defiance in response to the campaign. Trump on Monday said on Truth Social that Iran would be hit hard if it disrupted oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz. Senior Iranian security official Larijani responded, calling Trump's threats "worthless" and adding that "even those bigger than you couldn't eliminate Iranian nation". "Be careful, so that you won't get eliminated," he concluded. Trump continued to issue a series of warnings on social media on Tuesday, threatening severe military consequences if the country deploys mines along the pivotal channel, though he noted the US has no reports of this happening. But the BBC's US partner CBS News has reported that US intelligence assets believe Iran is preparing to possibly deploy naval mines in the Strait in future. The president later said the US had hit "and completely destroyed" a number of  "inactive mine laying boats andor ships". Meanwhile, the International Energy Agency held a second meeting with G7 nations on Tuesday to discuss options for stabilising the global oil market, including releasing millions of barrels of crude from countries' stockpiles. White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said the US military was discussing plans to ensure that the Strait of Hormuz remains open to oil tankers. On the ground in Iran, people have expressed anxiety and a feeling of uncertainty over what comes next. At least 1,230 people have been killed across the country since the start of the conflict, according to the humanitarian organisation the Iranian Red Crescent. "I was in total darkness last night," one man in his 30s from Tehran said, while others reported temporary blackouts or power fluctuations. "I'm feeling terrible. They hit a street near us today. I just want to be able to sleep tonight," a man in his 20s in the capital said. Amir, whose name has been changed to protect his identity, spoke to BBC Persian on Monday from Tehran, where he said the sound of the bombing "is so loud that it would be heard across the city". "We feel overwhelmed, we feel anxious and exhausted and the idea of no future is looming large over us," he added. Across the Iranian border in eastern Turkey, people who had fled described the fear of the unknown size and scope of the missile attacks. "When I opened the balcony door, the blast was so powerful it threw me back", one woman said, describing missile strikes to the BBC. In the early days of the war, she said the "strikes were few, now they come in waves". Emily Wither in eastern Turkey contributed to this report The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Smoke plumes caused by oil depot and refinery strikes drifted across Tehran on Monday, satellite images show, as the World Health Organization (WHO) warned that attacks on oil facilities could pose serious health risks to residents. Since the US-Israeli attacks on Iran began on 28 February, we have confirmed strikes on at least four oil facilities around the capital. Residents said smog and pollution have blocked out the Sun and left a strong smell of burning in parts of the city, while experts warn the scale of some of the pollutants released could be "unprecedented". The spike in air pollution appears to focus near the damaged oil sites around the capital - a city with a population of nearly 10 million, with millions more in the surrounding areas. The latest satellite pictures, captured on 9 March and reviewed by BBC Verify, show two major oil facilities in Tehran still on fire, following reported air strikes overnight on Saturday. The images also show smoke coming from Shahran depot in the north-west of the Iranian capital and the Tehran oil refinery, in the south-east. Verified video of the moments after Saturday's strike showed huge fireballs illuminating the night sky at the refinery. The combination of cloud and smoke plumes from the ongoing fires mean that we are unable to assess the extent of the damage at either oil facility hit over the weekend yet. But images taken at Shahran on Sunday morning showed emergency workers inspecting burned out oil tankers, blackened buildings and blazing fires. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said it hit "fuel depots" near Tehran in a post on X on 7 March, which included a photograph showing damage to the Tehran oil refinery. BBC Verify provided the coordinates of this facility, along with three other locations we identified, to the IDF and the Pentagon for comment. The Pentagon did not reply, while the IDF said there were "no IDF strikes at those sites". We have asked for clarification. Strikes at oil refineries have the potential to bring significant air pollution because they contain a huge variety of chemicals. When there is incomplete burning of oil – when there is not enough oxygen - carbon monoxide and soot particles can be released instead of carbon dioxide and water. Oil fires can also release sulphur and nitrogen oxides, which can form acids if they dissolve in rainwater, as well as other harmful hydrocarbons, metallic compounds and droplets of oil. A Tehran woman in her 20s said that she could "smell the burning" caused by the attacks on oil facilities. "I can't see the Sun. There is a horrible smoke. It's still there. I'm very tired," she told BBC Persian on Saturday. A precise assessment of air pollution is challenging because there are no ground-based measurements available - and satellite data is hard to interpret due to winds, clouds and other factors. But given the mix of chemicals likely released from the damaged oil sites, scientists have little doubt that the pollution is harmful and extreme - and very different to the smog seen in cities like Beijing or Delhi. "What has happened [in Iran] is definitely unprecedented because it's all coming in from missiles dropping in and airstrikes on oil refineries," said Dr Akshay Deoras, research scientist at the University of Reading. Many conflicts cause high levels of dust and particle pollution - but the "basket" of different chemicals in this case is "definitely unusual", he added. Eloise Marais, professor of atmospheric chemistry and air quality at University College London, agreed. She said that in most circumstances this kind of pollution would only be seen from "a very, very severe industrial accident where an entire refinery explodes". On Sunday, Tehran residents reported downpours of "black rain". Black rain is the informal term for rainfall contaminated with pollutants, turning it dark. It is normal for pollutants to be "washed out" of the air by rainfall, but black rain is rare and typically is the result of high levels of soot and other air pollutants, scientists have told BBC Verify. "The raindrops acted like little sponges or magnets, collecting whatever was in the air as they fell, which is why residents observed what's being described as 'black rain'," explained Deoras. It is also possible that some larger particles may have fallen out of the air without rain. The head of the WHO has already expressed "great concerns" for the impacts of the conflict on people's health. Damage to oil facilities "risks contaminating food, water and air – hazards that can have severe health impacts especially on children, older people, and people with pre existing medical conditions", said Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. "These very intense exposures of particulates have immediate impacts on the lungs," added Anna Hansell, professor of environmental epidemiology at the University of Leicester. "But they can also have quite long lasting effects over many years afterwards, on both respiratory systems and increasing cancer risk." Doug Weir, director of the Conflict and Environment Observatory, noted that "what's unusual about Tehran is we haven't observed these attacks in such a densely populated area before". "Often these oil field sites are quite far out in the countryside. People in Tehran are exposed to a huge range of substances in this black rain - not just oil," he said. BBC Weather forecasts suggest spells of rain on Tuesday and again from Thursday onwards, as well as a stronger breeze. That should help to disperse and wash pollutants away. But that does not mean the risks of the pollutants disappear. They can enter rivers and other waterways, or if they settle and the ground dries then winds can pick them up and they can become resuspended in the air. This story has been updated with a statement from the IDF which was received after publication. Additional reporting: Ghoncheh Habibiazad, Paul Brown, Rollo Collins, Shayan Sardarizadeh, Farida Elsebai and Daniel Wainwright What claims do you want BBC Verify to investigate? The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
It's happened twice now in a week. A telephone conversation between the presidents of Russia and Iran. As the US and Israel continue their strikes on Iran, Russian President Vladimir Putin is styling himself as international peacemaker. After all, it was the Kremlin leader who ordered Russia's full-scale invasion of an independent sovereign nation in 2022. Back then, the UN General Assembly had condemned the invasion of Ukraine as a violation of the UN Charter. And while the Kremlin is now calling for "a swift de-escalation and political resolution [of the Iran conflict]", Russia is continuing its war of attrition against Ukraine. Moscow has a "Comprehensive Strategic Partnership" agreement with Iran. Only this week Putin reaffirmed the Kremlin's "unwavering support" for Tehran. But their strategic partnership falls far short of a mutual defence treaty. Instead, Moscow has offered to mediate in the conflict. In Monday's telephone conversation with US President Donald Trump, according to the Kremlin, Putin "expressed several thoughts aimed at a swift diplomatic resolution of the Iran conflict, based among other things on contacts with leaders of Gulf states, the president of Iran, and leaders of other countries". For Russia it's a chance to boost its profile in the Gulf and the Middle East - and to present itself as a power with influence. It's an opportunity too to deepen its relationship with Washington. The Kremlin is keen to retain good working relations with Trump. It views its ties with the Trump administration as beneficial to Moscow's war aims in Ukraine. That explains why Putin has been careful not to criticise Trump personally and publicly over the Iran war. "[Putin] wants to be helpful," Trump said on Monday after his telephone conversation with Putin. "I said, 'You could be more helpful by getting the Ukraine-Russia war over with. That would be more helpful.'" And yet, while the Kremlin calls for 'de-escalation' in Iran, the conflict provides other opportunities for Moscow. The recent jump in global oil prices provides a much-needed boost to Russian government revenues and - amid a prolonged period of high prices - will help Russia continue funding its war on Ukraine. Russia's federal budget is based on the country exporting oil at $59 a barrel. In recent months oil prices dropped well below that level. This week, crude oil surged dramatically to almost $120 a barrel. They've since fallen back but oil prices remain well above the $59 mark. What's more, Trump has suggested that the US will waive oil-related sanctions "on some countries" to ease the shortage caused by the Iran war. If oil sanctions are eased on Russia, Moscow can look forward to an even greater financial windfall. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky said that would be a "serious blow" for Kyiv and urged Trump against it. Today's edition of the pro-Kremlin Komsomolskaya Pravda newspaper was optimistic. "Expensive oil is a reason [for the West] to cancel sanctions," declared the headline. The Kremlin may not be criticising America's president but some Russian newspapers have been slamming Trump and the Iran war. "The 'peace president' has simply lost his mind," declared Tuesday's edition of the tabloid Moskovsky Komsomolets. "The Emperor has no clothes. Or rather, no sanity." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
It was about 01:30 in the morning when a loud explosion tore through the Raouche neighbourhood in the heart of the Lebanese capital Beirut. The Israeli strike on the four-star Ramada Plaza hotel marked the first time in this war that Israel's bombing campaign had struck the city centre - a bustling coastal area full of restaurants and hotels. Inside, the Israeli military said, was a secret meeting of Iranian operatives - an allegation that has now been denied by Iran's government. The strike came without warning, and locals and displaced people staying in the area ran to their windows and balconies to see what had happened. Those on the streets nearby - still busy with Ramadan crowds - ducked for cover. Lebanon has been hit with hundreds of Israeli strikes since war between Israel and the Iran-backed armed group and political movement Hezbollah resumed here a week ago. Many of the strikes have toppled entire buildings, and nearly 500 people have been killed, according to official figures. They have focused on southern Lebanon, the eastern Bekaa Valley, and the southern suburbs of Beirut - the heartlands of Hezbollah and of the country's Shia Muslim community. But this Israeli drone strike in Raouche was far from there - instead targeting the fourth floor of the high-rise hotel, described on listings as offering "celebrity treatment with world-class service". An initial toll by the Lebanese health ministry said four people had been killed and 10 injured in the strike, but it did not identify them. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) said the five men killed in the strike worked for Iran's elite Quds Force - the overseas operations arm of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). They included a senior money man who would transfer funds to Hezbollah, and commanders specialised in intelligence gathering, it said. Iran did not comment until Tuesday evening, when its mission to the UN in New York published a letter accusing Israel of what it called "the cowardly terrorist assassination of four diplomats of the Islamic Republic of Iran". Hezbollah would not comment on the strike or its targets. While the strike hit only a small area of the sprawling hotel, bystanders were among those injured and fear spread through the local community, as people reckoned with the war reaching their neighbourhood. "This is not an area where you expect something like this to happen… of course we're scared," 47-year-old Yahya said while waiting for his coffee at the local Starbucks on Monday. "I come outside for my sanity but it's scary - you don't know who's standing next to you or in a building next to you. In the bombings they often give warnings but in the assassinations they don't, and the Israelis don't care about bystanders." Yahya said he could rarely hear the strikes that hit Beirut's southern neighbourhoods from his coastal apartment, but on Sunday morning the sound of the explosion jolted him from his sleep as it rang through homes and businesses across Raouche, shaking windows and shattering glass. At the car park beneath it, 33-year-old Mousa Khodour was at work in a coffee kiosk. He hadn't paid much attention to the hum of an Israeli drone overhead, which has become a common sound in Lebanon, but hit the ground when the explosion boomed. "It was huge. The entire area shook," he said. "I also have my four kids sleeping over there [in a makeshift structure at the edge of the car park], so I ran to check on them and thank God they weren't wounded. They were crying." While his children were unscathed, his cousin - also called Mousa - was injured by the shrapnel that sprayed across the car park. The 30-year-old spoke to the BBC shortly after being discharged from hospital on Monday evening. He said a piece of shrapnel "the size of a chickpea" had torn through his leg. "I just remember the bang and the glass coming down. It was very painful," the Syrian national said. He fled to Lebanon in 2013 to escape the war in his home country, but said he no longer felt safe. "We expected this to happen anywhere except for Raouche," he said. "Thank God it was my leg, not somewhere else." Others in Raouche, though, were less shocked. The luxury hotels in the area that would usually accommodate tourists and businesspeople are now largely housing families who have been forced to flee from their homes because of sweeping Israeli evacuation orders warning of military action. The United Nations estimates that nearly 700,000 people in Lebanon have been displaced by the renewed hostilities between Israel and Hezbollah, which began after Hezbollah fired rockets into Israel in response to the killing of Iran's supreme leader at the start of the war with Israel and the US. Israel had continued near-daily strikes against the group across Lebanon after a ceasefire ended a war between them in November 2024. Many of the current displaced people hail from Beirut's southern suburbs and have headed further north into the capital in search of shelter and safety. One displaced woman who was staying at the Ramada with her children said smoke had filled their room after the strike and the family had escaped down the emergency staircase. Standing near shattered glass on the road near the hotel, a 47-year-old man displaced from Tyre in southern Lebanon stuck plastic bags across his car's blown out windscreen. "We've been through a lot so we're used to it… we're not scared," he said, as his son nodded enthusiastically beside him. "They are saying it was Iranians but we don't know." Above him, beyond the blackened, blown-out walls of the corner room on the hotel's fourth floor, police and military officials could be seen scouring the scene days after the strike. Hotel management said they could not comment. But one staff member told the BBC that the third and fourth floors had been blocked off for the police investigation, with the displaced people staying on them moved elsewhere. He said the hotel was large and busy, and he and his work friends did not know who had been staying in the specific room that was hit, but had heard the reports. An official source told the BBC that three Lebanese nationals had booked rooms on the hotel's third and fourth floors which were used by the men targeted in the strike. The source said the hotel was hit three times, but two of the munitions did not explode. In its statement, the IDF said the strike, conducted by its navy, followed "precise IDF intelligence" that senior Quds Force officials - from its Lebanon Corps and Palestine Corps - were "hiding in a civilian hotel". It named three "key commanders" it said were killed in the strike as Majid Hassani, described as being "responsible for transferring funds to the [Iranian] regime's proxies in Lebanon", and senior intelligence figures Alireza Bi-Azar and Ahmad Rasouli. Two other Quds Force figures, Hossein Ahmadlou and Abu Mohammad Ali, were also killed, it said. The IDF said the men's "elimination constitutes a significant and necessary blow to the Iranian presence in Lebanon and to the Hezbollah terrorist organisation". In a letter to UN's secretary general sent on Thursday, Iran's permanent representative Amir-Saeid Iravani confirmed that Hassani, Bi-Azar, Rasouli and Ahmadlou were killed. However, he identified them as the Iranian embassy in Beirut's second secretary, third secretary, attaché, and a person assigned to the mission, and condemned the strike as a "heinous crime". "The targeting killing of four Iranian diplomats while they were serving as official representatives of a sovereign member state on the territory of another sovereign state constitutes a grave terrorist act and a serious breach of international law," Iravani wrote. The strike in Raouche - the second to target a Beirut hotel in the past week - followed warnings from the Israeli military for Iranian government representatives in Lebanon to "leave immediately before they are targeted". Lebanon's Prime Minister Nawaf Salam asked authorities last week to arrest and deport any Iranian Revolutionary Guards carrying out military activities in the country. A senior Lebanese security source told Reuters news agency on Saturday that more than 150 Iranian nationals, including diplomats and their families, had left Lebanon after the Israeli military threat. Iravani said Hassani, Bi-Azar, Rasouli and Ahmadlou had temporarily relocated from their official residences to the Ramada Plaza in response to the threat, and that the Lebanese foreign ministry had been notified. In its statement after the Raouche strike, the IDF said it would "not allow the Iranian terror regime elements to establish themselves in Lebanon and will continue to precisely eliminate the commanders of the Iranian terror regime wherever they operate". In Raouche this week, there was an uneasy normality on the streets outside the hotel, with passers-by peering up at the damage as they drove past on the busy road. Displaced barber Mohamed Abbas said he had been close to four strikes in southern Lebanon last week before fleeing to Raouche, hoping it would be safer. "There is no safe place in Lebanon and what happened is proof that Israel doesn't have red lines - they strike, attack and kill wherever they want," he said. For some of those displaced to the area, the strike signalled that they could not escape the war. "My house in the south was destroyed in the previous war, and my house in Dahieh [in southern Beirut] was destroyed in this war," a 23-year-old man standing beneath the Ramada Plaza said. "The war is expanding more and more." Additional reporting by Angie Mrad The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US military personnel and ground crew have been spotted preparing explosive ordnance at an airbase in Gloucestershire. It follows US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth's announcement earlier that "today" will be the "most intense" day of US strikes on Iran with the "most fighters, the most bombers, the most strikes". A fleet of US military planes have been stationed at RAF Fairford since Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer approved "defensive" US action against Iranian missile sites from UK bases. Three B-52 bombers - which can carry up to 24 cruise missiles - and four B-1 lancer bombers have been spotted arriving at the Cotswold base since Friday. Air activity has increased significantly at RAF Fairford since the US was granted permission to use the base in Gloucestershire and Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean. And earlier, US military personnel and ground crew were seen at the base preparing the B-1 Lancer bombers for operation. Sir Keir had initially refused to grant permission for the US to use UK bases in its joint offensive with Israel against Iran, which caused a disagreement with President Donald Trump. But at the beginning of March, the prime minister agreed the bases could be used for the "specific and limited defensive purpose" of destroying Iran's missiles "at source". RAF Fairford has one of the longest runways in the UK - at just under two miles (3km)- which makes it the preferred choice for large bombers. In a bid to bolster its military base in the Cotswolds, the US has stationed a number of its heavy-duty bombers at the base. The 146ft (44.5m) B-1 bomber, which weighs 86 tonnes, is the fastest bomber in the US Air Force, according to Boeing, hitting speeds of more than 900mph (1,448.4kmh). Nicknamed "the Bone", it has advanced radar and GPS systems to help hit targets and electronic jammers, radar warnings and a decoy system to protect it from enemies. B-52 bombers, which came into service in the 1950s, along with C17 transporter planes carrying munitions and spare parts for the bombers have also been spotted at the base. On 28 February, Israel and the US launched a joint attack on Iran, prompting retaliatory Iranian missile and drone strikes against Israel and targets in Middle Eastern countries hosting US military bases and embassies. The UK government has not joined the US and Israel in offensive operations against Iran. RAF Fairford, located on the border of Gloucestershire and Wiltshire, has been used by the US in the past to conduct long-range heavy bombing missions. It is one of the very few European bases certified to operate bombers like the B‑1, B‑52 and B‑2. Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. Zac Summers-Cameron died in 2025, aged 22, after his testicular cancer was originally misdiagnosed. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Lester Murphy says he wants to inspire others who have been diagnosed the neurological disorder. A collection of photos from Bristol, Somerset, Wiltshire and Gloucestershire in early spring. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Senior ministers are taking steps to help the Isle of Man start preparing early for the potential impact of energy price rises in the wake of the war in Iran, the chief minister has said. Alfred Cannan has called an extraordinary meeting of the Economic National Strategy Board to assess the implications of the conflict on the island's economy. Concerns have been raised that the US military action could see the price of energy supplies, including oil, continue to soar. The meeting would help ministers "understand our resilience, look at the supply chains, and then start to gather the data" about the impact on business and the community, he said. The meeting will also bring together senior civil servants and representatives of Manx Utilities (MU). Among the things being assessed would be looking at how long MU's forward purchasing would last and the impact of purchasing gas, to fire the island's main power station, at increased prices in future. The authority last week announced a below inflation 1.5% rise in electricity bills from April. Cannan said the government had "learned our lessons" from the knock-on effects of the coronavirus pandemic and the war in Ukraine,  which had shown a need to "start getting access to data at an early stage". The government previously capped electricity bills on the island and offered payments to the vulnerable after the wholesale price of gas soared in the wake of the war in Ukraine. He said while there was no immediate threat on a broader basis yet, there was a "need to brace ourselves" for "potential increases at the pumps in terms of our direct supply of fuels". Gathering the data would put ministers in a position to understand what the government might need to do to "balance the equation to ensure that we protect jobs, that we protect the economy, that we protect people's lives", he said. However, Cannan also warned against any firms profiteering in the face of rising prices. "I expect there to be significant rises, that's understandable. I also expect companies to be able to justify those rises," he added. Read more stories from the Isle of Man on the BBC, watch BBC North West Tonight on BBC iPlayer and follow BBC Isle of Man on Facebook and X. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iranians have told BBC Persian that they are exhausted and struggling to sleep after 10 days of Israeli and US attacks, as explosions "every few hours" rocked Tehran and the nearby city of Karaj overnight and cut power. "I was in total darkness last night," one man in his 30s from Tehran said, while others reported temporary blackouts or power fluctuations. "I'm feeling terrible. They hit a street near us today. I just want to be able to sleep tonight," a man in his 20s in the capital said. Another in his 20s in Tehran said "we're still alive," but added that "where missiles hit is getting closer and closer every day." On Monday evening, the Israeli military announced that it had begun a "broad wave of strikes against terror targets in Tehran". The military said on Tuesday morning that it had targeted an underground complex used by the Revolutionary Guards for weapons research, infrastructure within the main headquarters of the Quds Force, the Guards' overseas operations arm, and other weapons and defence production sites. Another "wave of strikes" was launched in Tehran on Tuesday afternoon, according to the military. Israel and the US launched a joint attack on Iran on 28 February, prompting retaliatory Iranian missile and drone strikes against Israel and targets in Middle Eastern countries hosting US military bases and embassies. On Monday, the US-based Human Rights Activists in Iran (HRANA) reported that 1,761 people had been killed in Iran - including at least 1,245 civilians, 194 of them children - since the war started. Access to Iran for journalists is restricted and the BBC has not been able to independently verify figures and events from inside the country. Internet connectivity in Iran has been almost entirely restricted, but BBC Persian has been hearing from residents, who we are not naming for their safety. The man in his 30s in Tehran who reported "total darkness" overnight said: "The electricity went out and I had no idea what was happening". "They hit hard last night. All you can see in our house are cracks in the walls. Sleeping has become the hardest thing for me." Two other Tehran residents said they had experienced electricity fluctuations, while another man in his 30s in the capital said the power went out for around 30 minutes. "I just want this to end once and for all," he said. One Tehran resident in his 30s said strikes were happening for "20 minutes in a row" at one point over Monday night. "I am tired," he said. "Every bit of routine I had is now gone. I either can't do them or don't have the motivation to carry them out." A woman in her 20s in Tehran said there were explosions "every few hours" and a strange white light in the sky that seemed different than nights before. However, she said, "even if it takes a few weeks now, it's still better than spending a lifetime living with this system", reflecting the sentiment of those who want to see an end to the Islamic Republic. Some in Karaj, which also experienced strikes and power cuts, felt similarly. A man in his 30s in the city, which is 30 km (20 miles) west of Tehran, said there were some fluctuations and a "blue light" in the sky on Monday night. A video published by BBC Persian from Karaj shows booms upon the horizon, as the night sky lights up with blue and red glows. The man said he would "tolerate this situation as long as the regime is gone". A mother and middle class restaurateur in her 50s, who lives in the Mehrshahr residential neighbourhood of Karaj, said there was a strike near her home overnight, "the closest place to us, and we truly felt the shadow of death over our heads". "But we are standing firm until the end to survive and to be free. Even if we are killed, it honestly does not matter compared to the lives that have already been lost in the hope of victory," she said. A woman in her 40s from Tehran also said: "I'm very sad about what has happened to the city, but I hope it ends well for the people of Iran. I hope to see them [officials] gone." Others who spoke to the BBC were not so defiant, or hopeful. A man in his 20s from Karaj said: "I'm getting tired of this situation. The whole war is overwhelming. Some scenarios for the future and for the people of Iran are truly frightening." The man in his 20s in Tehran who described how missiles were coming closer daily said he had been shot in the eye during the anti-government protests in December and January. HRANA has reported that at least 6,480 protesters were killed and 25,000 others injured in a brutal crackdown by security forces. "We are the victims," he said. "I have been harmed by the Islamic Republic, and because of it a war is now happening that is harming us again." Additional reporting by Soroush Pakzad The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Indian businesses say they are struggling to keep operations running as gas supplies are disrupted by the US and Israel's war on Iran. Restaurant owners are scrambling to keep kitchens running and entrepreneurs in industries like ceramics and fertilisers say they are unable to maintain their production and are warning of shutdowns. India has said it is not short of gas but has invoked emergency measures to ensure supplies get to domestic consumers and other key users. The country meets half of its total gas consumption through imports, much of which comes through the Strait of Hormuz - a narrow Gulf chokepoint - where shipping has effectively been halted by retaliatory Iranian strikes. The conflict - now in its 11th day - has led to millions of barrels of oil and gas getting stuck near the Strait of Hormuz. About 40-50% of Indian crude oil imports pass through the narrow waterway. It also carries roughly 50-60% of the country's liquefied natural gas (LNG) imports and about 80-85% of its liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) shipments. For restaurants, cafes and millions of other eateries across India, the top concern is LPG, widely used as cooking gas. India imports about 60% of the LPG it consumes annually - making it the world's second-largest LPG importer after China. Almost all of it comes from Gulf producers - mainly Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Kuwait - passing through the Strait of Hormuz. Analysts say LPG supply is the more immediate vulnerability for India. Stocks held by refiners and distributors are estimated to cover only about two to three weeks of demand. "Most restaurants hardly have two days of LPG buffer with them currently. Many of them may have to close business in the next few days if the LPG shortage continues," Manpreet Singh, treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India, told the BBC. Some restaurant owners believe that in a day or two they will have to rely entirely on electric ovens and coal, which will force them to trim their menus. "We are not closing down. But it is possible that depending on the stocks of cylinders, hotel owners may decide to reduce the items available on the menu," Subramanya Holla, president of a hotels' association in the southern city of Bengaluru, told BBC News Hindi. In India, households have to book LPG cylinders with authorised distributors - in the wake of the supply crunch, the government has increased the gap between two bookings from 21 days to 25 days. Commercial users, however, can access LPG cylinders at a day's notice. Commercial cylinders have around 33% more gas than the ones meant for households but cost almost double. Some dealers are charging 2,500 rupees ($27; £20) per LPG cylinder these days, hotel owners in Bengaluru and Delhi say. "We normally get three cylinders every morning. Today, we received just one… The delivery person told us that if supplies arrive, he will bring the remaining cylinders. If he doesn't come, we may have to consider shutting down," says Manjunath Shetty, a restaurant owner in Bengaluru. The disruption is not limited to restaurants. The fertiliser sector - natural gas being its main feedstock - has been affected. Some manufacturers have announced planned production cuts as gas supplies tighten. Industry-wide reductions could curb fertiliser availability just as farmers prepare for the country's major cereal planting season, Reuters news agency reported. The ceramic and tiles industry - which primarily uses propane and natural gas - is also hit. "While propane supply has entirely stopped for two days now, natural gas supplies will be there for another five days. We are considering a month-long shutdown from 15 March if the situation does not improve," says Mukesh Kundariya of the ceramic association in the western city of Morbi, India's tiles and sanitaryware production hub. India's domestic LNG output meets only a fraction of demand in an economy that increasingly depends on gas for electricity generation, fertiliser production, city gas distribution, transport and industry. Additional reporting by Imran Qureshi from Bengaluru Follow BBC News India on Instagram, YouTube, Twitter and Facebook. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Five members of the Iranian women's football team have been granted humanitarian visas in Australia after their elimination in the Asian Cup, the government in Canberra says. Immigration Minister Tony Burke said the women "were moved to a safe location" by Australian police. He said other squad members had been told they were welcome to stay in the country. The women had been due to fly home, but supporters had raised fears for their safety after the team declined to sing the national anthem ahead of their match against South Korea last week. This prompted criticism in Iran, with one conservative commentator accusing the team of being "wartime traitors" and pushing for harsh punishment. The remainder of the team was taken to Gold Coast Airport and was expected to fly to Sydney on Tuesday evening local time. The team's coach was briefly stopped by dozens of activists who tried to persuade the other players to stay in Australia. Some protesters lay on the ground in an attempt to block the coach from moving forward. The players watched from inside the bus. Australia's humanitarian visa programme grants permanent protection to refugees and people in humanitarian need. Visa holders can live, work and study in the country. Speaking early on Tuesday, Burke said the five players were happy for their names to be confirmed as Fatemeh Pasandideh, Zahra Ghanbari, Zahra Sarbali, Atefeh Ramazanzadeh, and Mona Hamoudi. "They want to be clear they are not political activists. They are athletes who want to be safe," he said, adding that talks had been going on over several days. Giving further details, Burke said in parliament that a police officer had been inside the team's hotel and made efforts to create "the maximum amount of opportunities" for players to seek help. The players were reportedly not able to walk around the hotel unaccompanied and were escorted to a conference room to eat meals, according to a source who spoke to SBS News. Giving further details, Burke said that on Monday it became clear that five of the players "wanted to be able to stay in Australia". The group left their hotel the same day and were moved to a safe location by police. Shortly after they left, the BBC witnessed some of their minders running across the hotel to try to find them – but they had already gone. Burke said he met the women at the safe location and then signed off for their applications for humanitarian visas - a process completed at about 01:30 local time on Tuesday (15:30 GMT Monday). It is unclear what repercussions there might be for the players' families as a result. "I say to the other members of the team, the same opportunity is there. Australia has taken the Iranian women's soccer team into our hearts. These women are tremendously popular in Australia. "But we realise they are in a terribly difficult situation with the decisions that they're making," Burke said. The Iranian players' situation had earlier come to the attention of US President Donald Trump, who had taken to his Truth Social platform to demand action, saying Australia should "give asylum" to the women or "the US will take them if you won't." Around an hour later, Trump posted again to say he had spoken to Albanese, writing: "five have already been taken care of, and the rest are on their way". Trump's post appeared to also suggest some of the team feared for the safety of their families back in Iran and so felt they must "go back". "In any event, the Prime Minister is doing a very good job having to do with this rather delicate situation. God bless Australia!" Trump said. The Trump administration put all asylum decisions on hold at the end of last year, and has stopped issuing immigrant visas for citizens from dozens of countries including Iran. It has said the administration wants to bring "an end to the abuse" of the system. Last year, two groups of Iranians - including people whose asylum applications had been unsuccessful - were deported from the US back to Iran. The groups reportedly included members of the LGBT community, who face severe legal and social repercussions in Iran. Iran was playing in the AFC Asian Cup tournament in Brisbane on Sunday, where they played against the Philippines. Unlike their earlier match against South Korea, where the players declined to sing the national anthem, Sunday's match saw the players sing and salute during the anthem. They had also done this in their second match against Australia. Their actions led critics to believe they had been forced to take part by government officials accompanying them during the tournament as part of the delegation. On Sunday, hundreds of members of Australia's Iranian community - who had come to support the team in the stands - booed and jeered at the anthem, which they do not recognise. Midway through the first half, many also unfurled the Lion and Sun flag, which served as the official state flag before the Islamic revolution in Iran. These had been snuck into the stadium in defiance of signs outside which said only Iran's current official flag could be displayed. While the fans enthusiastically supported the players, there was very little interaction between them and the team during the match. In one notable exception, a player receiving medical attention on the sidelines blew a kiss to the stands, receiving a huge cheer. And while the Filipina team lined up to thank their fans at the end of the match, the Iranians left the pitch promptly. "They can't speak freely because they are threatened," said Naz Safavi, who attended all three matches in which the team played. "We are here to show them that we are fully supporting them." With concern rising over the players' treatment once they return home, there had been a push to support the women to seek asylum in Australia, if they wished. "Some may have concerns, others may not - but what we know is most of them have families back home, some of them have children back home, and even if offered the right to remain in Australia, if they feel unsafe, many of them may not accept that opportunity," said Craig Foster, a former captain of the Australian men's football team and prominent human rights advocate. He played a key part in helping the Afghanistan women's team flee the Taliban in 2021. "What's most important is that that offer is made," he said. In Sunday's post-match news conference, the team's manager Marziyeh Jafari said: "We are impatiently waiting to return. Personally, I would like to return to my country as soon as possible and be with my compatriots and family." Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Double-murderer Dezi Freeman evaded capture for seven months in the bush but police believe he had help. Australians lose more money to gambling, per capita, than anywhere else in the world. Lawyers for Naveed Akram had argued his mother, brother and sister live in "constant fear". Anthony Albanese used a rare TV address to tell Australians that the "months ahead may not be easy" amid the global effects of the war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
For much of the last week and a half, the lion's share of the attention about America and Israel's war with Iran has, understandably, been consumed by the pictures and testimony about the conflict around the Middle East - in Iran, Israel, Lebanon and the United Arab Emirates among others. In addition to this, there are two more domestically focused consequences for the UK and elsewhere. The first, a concern around the clock for the Foreign Office, is essentially logistical - trying to help Britons stuck in the Middle East get home. It is a long and complicated process, with airspace and seats on planes both limited. But there is a second domestic consequence that affects a far greater number of people: the impact it has on bills for millions of people. One of the standout issues of our time, the cost of living, is catapulted centre stage yet again, with every prospect of grim consequences for many. Chancellor Rachel Reeves has said she is "clear eyed" about the current situation and her response to it. In essence, the government is in something of a holding position for now – conscious of how squeezed so many people feel, but conscious too that the biggest determinants of how this plays out and the impact it has are impossible to be certain about: how long the conflict goes on and how severe it becomes. In particular, does oil start flowing freely again through the Strait of Hormuz in the Gulf – or does it not? In the meantime, petrol prices for many have shot up - expect to see Reform UK to have something to say about this on Tuesday - and MP after MP has raised with the government the spike in costs of heating oil, used by many homes that are not on the gas network. Plenty in rural Britain and a huge proportion of households in Northern Ireland are affected. Ministers have said publicly they are worried people are being ripped off. But folk I speak to in the industry say they themselves are "price takers" and very few have significant storage capacity – so they are instantly exposed to rises in the wholesale price and these costs get passed on to consumers. MPs have a chance to meet a Treasury minister on Wednesday to raise their concerns. More broadly the chancellor has pointed to the energy price cap which is in place until the end of June and limits the cost of electricity and gas. I was intrigued by a comment by former Chancellor Sir Jeremy Hunt in the Commons. He said when he was doing Rachel Reeves' job, the Treasury's "rule of thumb" was that "a 20% increase in energy prices meant 1% more on inflation and 0.5% less on growth." Let us see how things play out in the coming days and weeks. Plenty will hope that the war comes to an end soon and, as far as the economic consequences are concerned at least, oil starts flowing freely again soon. If that were to happen, the impact on wallets and bank balances here might be limited and short-lived. But from the UK's perspective, including those at the top of government, they have limited if any influence over how long this all goes on. In the meantime, the issue Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer has been desperate to talk about every week of this year so far – but has so often struggled to be heard above the din of events at home and abroad – is once again flashing red for millions of families already struggling: the cost of living. In just the last few years, there has been the pandemic, Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine and now this. Two hugely consequential moments on so many levels, including economic, and the growing reality now of a third with broad, profound implications – and potentially big impacts on family bills and budgets. Sir Keir Starmer says it is "deeply concerning" the rapper is set to headline a festival after recent antisemitic comments. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Donald Trump and his administration have so far offered mixed messages and contradictory explanations on the joint US-Israeli military campaign against Iran. And Monday - the 10th day of an operation that has rattled allies and shaken markets - typified this confusion around the war's timeline and ultimate goals. After a tumultuous morning during which US shares indices dropped and oil prices surged, the American president began speed-dialling reporters in an apparent effort to soothe nerves. His comments, however, were lacking in clarity even when he was pushed for more detail. "I have a plan for everything, OK?" he told a reporter from the New York Post when asked about spiking oil prices. "I have a plan for everything. You'll be very happy." To CBS News, he said the war "is very complete, pretty much". "We're very far ahead of schedule," he added. When asked whether the operation could therefore end soon, Trump said: "I don't know, it depends. Wrapping up is all in my mind, nobody else's." His telephone spree, at least in an economic sense, had the desired effect. Stock markets rallied, and the price of a barrel of oil – which had reached $120 earlier in the day - dropped below $90. Just days ago, Trump said that he would not stop the war until Iran's "unconditional surrender". But after his comments on Monday, it appeared as though an end to a military operation that has roiled the Middle East and led to the near complete shutdown of shipping traffic through the Straits of Hormuz could be in sight. By evening, however, Trump was walking back those comments. "We could call it a tremendous success right now," he said. "Or we could go further. And we're going to go further." He said the US was "very close to finishing" what he called an "excursion", but warned that the US would intensify its strikes if Iran continued to threaten oil tankers exiting the Persian Gulf. "We will hit them so hard that it will not be possible for them or anybody else helping them to recover that section of the world," he said. Trump also laid out an expansive mission for the war. His goal, he said, was to ensure that Iran could not develop weaponry to target the US, Israel or any American allies "for a very long time". That ultimately might require the kind of regime change that Trump has been unable to secure so far, as the late Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has been replaced as leader by his son. Within a space of hours, the messaging from the president had been dizzying. Those looking for signs of when this massive military operation could end or clues as to its concrete goals were left with more questions than answers. In a CBS interview on Sunday, Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth outlined a next phase of the US-Israeli operation that included using more powerful ordnance. "The ability for us to be up over the top and hunting with more conventional munitions, gravity bombs, 500lb, 1,000lb, 2,000lb bombs on military targets," he said, "we haven't even really begun to start that effort of the campaign." When Trump was asked on Monday about the apparent contradiction between his statements that the war was "very complete" and Hegseth's comments, he replied: "I think you could say both." "It's the beginning of building a new country," he said. Iraq-style nation-building, however, is an activity that Trump and his aides have explicitly said they do not want to undertake. On Tuesday, US investors will pass judgement on Trump's latest comments. But even if the wild market swings we have seen begin to stabilise, the surge in petrol prices will likely take longer to calm. In the US, the average price of a gallon of gasoline is now $3.48, up 48 cents from a week ago. This comes as there are some concerning indications about the economy. Last Friday, for example, the Bureau of Labor Statistics announced the US had lost 92,000 jobs in February, unemployment ticked up to 4.4% and the labour force participation rate, at 62%, was the lowest since December 2021. "Affordability" and cost of living concerns regularly rank as the top issue for Americans – and these same polls suggest there is sizeable opposition to the ongoing Iran military campaign. That is a dangerous mix for a president who is inextricably linked to this operation and months away from vital midterm elections in November that will decide control of Congress. Trump has promised that higher prices are temporary, and that by the time Americans head to the polls in November they will be more positive about the cost of living. In northern Georgia, however, voters are casting ballots in a special congressional election on Tuesday. There, the Iran war – and the danger it presents to the economy – are pressing concerns. Bob Stinnett, an independent voter, said he worried that the spike in energy prices could cause a recession. "I have supported Trump, but not for this," he said. Angie, who recently retired after a long career as a nurse, said she was worried rising gas prices could eat into her budget at a precarious time in her finances. When asked how she felt about the Iran war, and the impact it would have on her gas prices, she said she cares more about the people of Iran. But, she said, the US should not have got involved. "I honestly don't like it at all," she said. "I understand they needed help, but couldn't we have found another way to do this?" The north-western Georgia district, recently held by right-wing firebrand Marjorie Taylor Greene, is solidly conservative. But even there, voters are uneasy, which presents rife opportunity for Democratic candidate Shawn Harris. "Because gas prices are going up, everything's going through the roof, and it's not because of something else, it's something that we chose to get into," said the farmer and retired brigadier general. "I think I'm going to pick up more voters simply because we're into a war," he said. "And oh by the way, those voters got sons and daughters in the war." The president has repeatedly pledged to bring down prices, and he and his team have signalled an awareness of the importance of the issue. Late last year, he launched a so-called "affordability tour" in Pennsylvania but it has failed to get going in earnest. With military operations in Venezuela and Iran dominating the headlines in the months since, Trump risks being seen as a president more focused on legacy-defining foreign interventions than on domestic food prices. The White House, of course, would argue he is able to juggle both. But with rising petrol prices spurred by a military campaign that polls suggest few Americans really wanted, there is real political risk for Trump. On Monday evening, he spoke about the "tremendous success" the US military has achieved in its campaign so far. He ticked through how Iran's navy has been sunk, its air force destroyed, and its radar and anti-aircraft equipment disabled. War, however, is more than missiles launched, bombs dropped and targets destroyed. The price of this war – measured in damage to the global and US economy, and in political costs to Trump and his fellow Republicans – is still coming into view. And in a year that may well define Trump's second term, the American public has yet to render its final judgement. With additional reporting from Kayla Epstein in Georgia Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. A former US marine tells the BBC the priority of any recovery team would be to look for signs of life. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Hundreds and hundreds of ships. But they're all in the wrong place. "Oh my goodness," says Michelle Wiese Bockmann, senior maritime intelligence analyst at Windward, a maritime AI company, as she checks the live positions broadcast by commercial vessels in waters off Iran, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar. "I'm up to… 35 different clusters," she says, looking at a map of the Strait of Hormuz and surrounding areas. The clusters she mentions are weird circles of icons layered over the map, with each icon representing a real ship. But ships don't bunch together in tight, unnaturally perfect circles. And they also don't hover over land – which is where some of the clusters appear. No, their GPS coordinates have been disrupted, obfuscating their true location. Wars are not just fought with bullets and bombs. Electromagnetic waves also do battle. Invisible to the naked eye, GPS jamming can cause significant disruption, hampered communications – and potentially deadly accidents. In recent years, GPS jamming has affected aircraft in Europe, including a plane used by the President of the European Commission. And it is a daily feature of the war in Ukraine. Now that conflict has erupted in the Middle East, electronic warfare is spilling over yet more territory. The interference currently affecting ships in and around the Strait of Hormuz is far from the first time that Bockmann has observed GPS jamming impacting vessels' Automatic Identification Systems (AIS). The same thing happened in this region last year during the 12-day war between Israel and Iran, and electronic interference has also troubled vessel navigators in the Baltic Sea. But, she says, "This is next-level." "We can't over-estimate the huge danger this places to maritime navigation and safety," adds Bockmann. The National Hydrographic Office Pakistan has also warned about interference affecting shipping in the region. Ships use AIS partly to avoid one another. It takes a long time for a 300m-long tanker carrying hundreds of thousands of tonnes of oil to turn or come to a stop – and vessels can travel potentially many kilometres before they fully adjust their course. If you can't be sure about where nearby vessels are, the risk of a collision goes up, especially at night or in poor visibility. "That's the problem," says Alan Woodward at the University of Surrey. "Not you knowing where you're going – it's not knowing where everybody else is going." There is no official confirmation as to who is behind the jamming but military analysts strongly suspect Iran of causing disruption to vessels. Iran has also threatened to attack any ship attempting to pass through the Strait of Hormuz. Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) or GPS jamming tools used by Iran are likely to be domestically produced or made with equipment sourced from Russia or China, says Thomas Withington, associate fellow at the Royal United Services Institute, a think tank. He also suggests that US forces in the region are using jamming systems to protect their bases, personnel and vessels from drones and GNSS-guided weapons. When approached, the US Department of War told the BBC: "Due to operations security we are not going to comment on the status of specific capabilities in the region." Sean Gorman is co-founder of tech company Zephr.xyz, which has analysed the extent of jamming in countries including Ukraine. Data from aircraft can reveal when GPS jamming is happening but with the airspace over Iran now closed, Gorman has had to find other sources. In recent days, he used radar data from a satellite to detect jamming in Iran. While the BBC has not independently verified this data, Gorman says that jamming devices leave a trace of the interference they cause in radar signals, allowing him to reveal occurrences of GPS-jamming around the country. In 2024, he and colleagues used smartphones strapped to drones to study GPS jamming in Ukraine. The drones would fly around while the smartphones recorded GPS information – picking up interference that could then be plotted on a map. "We were looking at the [GNSS] measurements of all those phones," he explains. "You could triangulate to where the jammer was located." "I was just amazed [at] the level of jamming and how powerful it is," says Gorman. There are various technologies that offer to protect against GPS jamming. Mitigating the problem can include automatically detecting jamming or interference and switching to unaffected frequencies, for example. Defence giant Raytheon UK makes a device called Landshield, which is about the size of an ice hockey puck in its smallest form. The company says this "anti-jam antenna system" can be installed on different kinds of vehicles – from cars to aircraft – and that it uses multiple channels to overcome jamming. "We're seeing quite an increase in demand and capacity for our anti-jamming products at the moment," says Alex Rose-Parfitt, engineering director of Raytheon UK. Other companies have developed navigation tools that work around GPS's flaws. Advanced Navigation, an Australia-based firm, has come up with a system that can determine a vehicle's position based on readings from gyroscopes and accelerometers – the same kind of devices that your smartphone uses to detect when it has been turned sideways, for instance. As for working out one's geographic position, though, Chris Shaw, co-founder and chief executive of Advanced Navigation, says his firm's tech can use alternatives when GPS proves unavailable or unreliable. This includes matching optical imagery of one's location to satellite imagery, or even through computer-based analysis of the position of stars overhead. "The image processing is very advanced," says Shaw. "Doing something like… star-mapping is very inexpensive." Though, he adds, "It's just not very accurate." That is why multiple forms of location and position analysis might be necessary. Without better protection, GPS will likely remain vulnerable in its current form. Crucially, the signals used by GPS-based systems are very weak and therefore easy to jam. It's worth noting that militaries have access to "M-Code" GPS, is a carefully authenticated and encrypted form of the technology that is far more resistant to jamming. Ramsey Faragher, director of the Royal Institute for Navigation, says that GPS jamming in the waters off Iran raises the risk of a maritime accident. He predicts that the growing prevalence of jamming could lead to the introduction of more secure alternatives. Similar to the gradual move from wi-fi networks that were once completely open and publicly accessible, to the password-protected networks of today. "Soon, we will look back on this era where we are using open GNSS signals and think, 'God, we were mad, that was really not a smart move'," he says. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. On the tech giant's 50th year, we ask analysts to give their top three Apple successes and misses The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Israeli military has said it carried out several wide-scale waves of strikes across Iran, as supporters of the Islamic Republic staged rallies to celebrate the appointment of a new supreme leader. Mojtaba Khamenei, a hardline Shia Muslim cleric close to the powerful Revolutionary Guards, was chosen on Sunday to succeed his father, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in a strike at the start of the war with the US and Israel nine days ago. In his first reaction to the decision, US President Donald Trump said he was "not happy". Meanwhile, Iran launched new barrages of missile and drones at Gulf Arab states hosting US military bases and Israel, where one person was killed on Monday. The price of oil also surged to more than $100 a barrel for the first time in four years, with the war disrupting exports and forced production stoppages in the region. Iranian state TV announced late on Sunday that Mojtaba Khamenei had been elected the new supreme leader by the Assembly of Experts, a body of 88 Shia clerics. On Monday, authorities called on people to gather in major squares and streets across the country to "pledge allegiance" to the 56-year-old. Videos published by Iranian media showed rallies in Tehran, Bojnurd, Tabriz, Zanjan, Kerman, Khorramabad, Mashhad, Bushehr, Yazd, Qom and Ilam. Thousands took part in a rally in the capital's Enghelab Square, chanting "Death to America, death to Israel" and "God is greatest" under a banner bearing a portrait of Ali Khamenei and the words "Your path will continue". A teenager told Iran's Student News Network (SNN) that the appointment showed that the Iranian people are "alive and will not back down". But a man in his 30s told BBC Persian that "even the thinnest of chances for a change are no more", adding that supporters of the establishment "don't even need to change their chants". On Sunday night, some social media users had shared footage reportedly showing people in Tehran chanting "Death to Mojtaba" from their balconies. They echoed chants against his father that were heard during the nationwide protests in January, when thousands of people were killed in a crackdown by security forces. Little is known about Mojtaba Khamenei, who has never held an official position. However, he is known to have been heavily involved in running his father's office, with influence over politics, security, foreign affairs and the economy. The Islamic Revolution Guard Corps (IRGC) quickly pledged its allegiance to him, while the secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council, Ali Larijani, said his appointment had "caused the hostile and warmongering enemies to despair. Israel's foreign ministry dismissed Mojtaba Khamenei as "another tyrant to continue the Iranian regime's brutality". Before Sunday's announcement, the US president had warned that any leader chosen without his approval "isn't going to last long". Asked about his plans for the new supreme leader on Monday, Trump told the New York Post: "Not going to tell you. I'm not happy with him." He later told CBS News that the war was "very far ahead" of his initially stated schedule of four or five weeks. "I think the war is very complete, pretty much," he said. "They have no navy, no communications, they've got no air force." On Monday evening, Trump said the US had "won in many ways, but we haven't won enough". The US military said on Monday that it had struck 5,000 targets during the conflict, including more than 50 Iranian vessels, as well as air defence systems, ballistic missile sites, and military communications. The Israeli military announced that its fighter jets had carried out extensive strikes on military infrastructure in Tehran, Isfahan in central Iran, and Shiraz in the south during Monday. It said they struck a command centre in Tehran belonging to the Quds Force, the IRGC's overseas operations arm, and a site in Isfahan used for the manufacturing and storage of anti-aircraft missiles and other defence systems. The military also said six major Iranian military airfields were targeted, along with the IRGC's drone headquarters and ballistic missile production infrastructure. Residents of eastern Tehran told BBC Persian that they heard explosions as the rallies in support of Mojtaba Khamenei were taking place in Enghelab Square. Iranian state TV also reported a blast near a gathering of loyalists in the historic Naqsh-e Jahan square in Isfahan. Footage showed people waving flags and chanting "God is greatest" as a cloud of smoke rises into the sky in the background. There was no immediate response from Iranian authorities. However, the Iranian Red Crescent said on Monday afternoon that its first responders were trying to rescue two people and remove bodies from a destroyed building in Resalat Square in north-eastern Tehran. At least 1,230 people have been killed across Iran since the start of the conflict, according to the humanitarian organisation. It has not said whether the figure includes members of the armed forces. The US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) has put the reported death toll at 1,708, including 1,205 civilians and 187 military personnel. Iran has responded to the US and Israeli strikes by launching hundreds of missiles and drones at Israel and neighbouring Gulf Arab states which host US military bases. On Monday, authorities in Israel reported the first deadly strike there in just over a week. A worker from China was killed and another was seriously injured by shrapnel from a missile with a cluster bomb warhead at a construction site in Yehud, local media reported. A third person was injured elsewhere as at least six locations in central Israel were reportedly hit by cluster bombs from the same missile. Footage shared on social media in recent days has shown the use of such warheads, which break up into smaller bombs, making them difficult for air defences to intercept as they scatter over a wide area. In Bahrain, the health ministry said at least 32 citizens were injured overnight in an Iranian drone attack on the Sitra area, south of the capital, Manama. Four people were seriously injured, including a two-month-old baby and 17-year-old girl. Another Iranian strike caused a fire and material damage at the kingdom's Al Maameer oil facility. And in the United Arab Emirates, the defence ministry said two members of the armed forces were killed when their helicopter crashed "due to a technical malfunction while performing their national duty". The Qatari interior ministry at the same time said 313 people of various nationalities had been arrested on suspicion of "spreading misleading information and rumours" during the Iranian attacks, including by filming and circulating unauthorised videos. On Saturday, Iran's president apologised to neighbouring countries for attacking them. However, he later clarified his remarks following a backlash from Iranian hardliners, saying Iran would be "forced to respond" to any attack originating from their soil. Qatari Prime Minister Mohamed bin Abdul Rahman Al Thani said in an interview with Sky News that he "totally rejected" Iran's attempts to justify the attacks. French President Emmanuel Macron meanwhile said that his country and its allies were preparing for a "defensive" mission to reopen the Strait of Hormuz. Iran has sought to block the narrow Gulf waterway, through which about 20% of global oil and gas shipments pass, since the start of the conflict. In response to Macron's remarks, Larijani said security in the strait was unlikely to be restored "amid the fires ignited by the United States and Israel in the region". The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A leader who has never been fully tested takes the helm in Iran when its theocracy faces its greatest test in five decades. Continuity and connections have pulled Mojtaba Khamenei, 56, to the top after the assassination of his father, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, in the first salvos of this war. But Iran's third supreme leader since its 1979 revolution takes charge as the Islamic Republic confronts an existential battle. Large crowds, the foot soldiers of the revolution, took to the streets immediately to shout "Allahu Akbar" - "God is greatest" - to celebrate his selection by the Assembly of Experts, a body of 88 Shia Muslim clerics. All security forces pledged to serve their new commander-in-chief until their "last drop of blood". State TV showed pictures of the first missiles fired in his name with a message scrawled on its side - "At your service, Seyyed Mojtaba." Yet - from the safety of their apartments - some of the many protesters who filled the streets in January denouncing his father as a "dictator" and calling for his death were last night heard shouting "Death to Mojtaba!" For those who still mourn the loss of the many thousands killed in that crackdown on those protests, a harsh, hardline regime seems set to become even harsher. They still dare to hope that Khamenei's days, and his system, are numbered. The second, most prominent, son of the late ayatollah is in his father's ultraconservative mould. Mojtaba Khamenei worked for decades in his shadow; he knows all the details about how the deep state works when it confronts external threats and internal upheaval. He is also at one with the powerful Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), which he first joined as a teenager straight out of high school before heading to study in Qom, the city known as the preeminent centre for Shia Islamic study. The IRGC, established in 1979 to protect and preserve the revolution, now holds sway over a multi-layered security system and an enormous economic empire. Its commanders are now calling the shots. The younger Khamenei was said to be their candidate. And this war is no longer just a political fight; it's intensely personal. Mojtaba Khamenei lost not just his father in the Israeli strike on the supreme leader's compound, but also his mother, Mansoureh Khojasteh Bagherzadeh, his wife Zahra Haddad-Adel, as well as a son, on that fateful Saturday morning. He was also reported to be injured but there have been no details, nor even any sign of him since. And it's deeply personal for US President Donald Trump, who keeps making it clear he doesn't take kindly to those who take issue with his orders. As speculation swirled over the successor, Trump declared more than once that Ali Khamenei's hardline son was "unacceptable". Now he's warning that Mojtaba Khamenei "won't last long". He is in Israel's sights too, with Defence Minister Israel Katz calling him "an unequivocal target". So Khamenei may still remain in the shadows for a while. It will deepen the mystery around this reclusive cleric. There's no record of any public speeches, he's rarely appeared in public, and he's never held any formal government jobs. His photograph never appeared alongside the ubiquitous portraits of his father. The late ayatollah was reported to have ruled him out of the succession, wanting to avoid the hereditary system of the monarchy ousted in the 1979 revolution. Most Iranians have never even heard his voice. But there have been some signs of his views. A pivotal moment being mentioned now is the 2005 electoral success of the conservative presidential candidate Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. His reformist rivals accused the younger Khamenei of conspiring behind the scenes to secure his victory. Ahmedinejad's disputed re-election in 2009 sparked an unprecedented wave of protest now remembered as "the Green Revolution". Prominent reformist politicians were put under house arrest where they remain to this day. One of the other contenders for Iran's new supreme leader had been a candidate with different revolutionary credentials. Hassan Khomeini, grandson of the first supreme leader Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, was in the ilk of the reformists. Khamenei's ascent seems to signal that the reformists - the relative moderates in Iran's fractious political spectrum, who include the current President Masoud Pezeshkian - are now pushed even further to the sidelines. Politically, Khamenei is close to two leading figures, also linked to the revolutionary guards, who now play pivotal roles - the veteran politician Ali Larijani, who heads the decisive Supreme National Security Council, and Mohammad Baqer Qalibaf, a former military officer and politician who's now the speaker of parliament. Friends and allies of the late Ayatollah, they were chosen to take on greater responsibilities in the high stakes planning of recent months which had included engaging in talks with Trump's envoys mediated by Qatar, and preparing for an all-out confrontation with the military and intelligence might of their greatest enemies. Larijani was described as a pragmatist by a western official who met him during last month's aborted negotiations to secure a nuclear deal between Iran and America. In this moment where hardliners - who call themselves Principlists in defence of their system - are taking centre stage, there are still voices who say this could still take a different turn. A politician close to Khamenei - Abdolreza Davari - described him in public statements and a recent interview with the New York Times as "extremely progressive" and someone who would "move to sideline the hardliners". He cast him as an Iranian version of the Saudi Crown Prince, Mohammad bin Salman, who significantly expanded social freedoms in the kingdom while keeping a tight grip on power. There's no sign of that kind of seismic shift now, especially not in these perilous unpredictable days. Iran is now trapped in the vice of an escalating war rocking the entire Middle East wrecking relations with its neighbours and causing economic shocks far beyond. Mojtaba Khamenei's rise was cited by Trump as a worst-case scenario. The forces fighting against America and Israel see him as their best chance to see this through. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Mojtaba Khamenei has been named Iran's new supreme leader and successor to his father, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed on the first day of the war with the US and Iran. Some pro-establishment crowds have taken to the streets to celebrate the appointment of a hardliner close to the powerful Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). But other Iranians have told the BBC that they believe it will not bring about change. "Even the thinnest of chances for a change are no more within the system," said a man in his 30s in the capital, Tehran. He said the Assembly of Experts - an 88-member clerical body that chooses the supreme leader - could not have selected anyone closer to Ali Khamenei. "So, everything will remain much the same; they don't even need to change their chants to support the [new leader]," he added. For years, there have been rumours that Mojtaba Khamenei held considerable influence behind the scenes in Iran. Many expect him to continue his father's hardline policies. A woman in her 20s in Tehran said she believed Mojtaba Khamenei would be "even more oppressive than his dad". She told the BBC: "I really hope their [senior officials'] lives end in the war, otherwise if we're under his rule, we will all die." Another Tehran resident in his 30s said: "He's vengeful. They killed his father and he won't let go. "If he can't take revenge on the US, he will take it out on us ordinary people. I hope that Israel and the US will target him." Since Sunday night, Iranian state TV news channel IRINN has been showing pro-establishment rallies held for Mojtaba Khamenei in different cities including Tehran, the holy city of Qom, and the north-eastern city of Mashhad, his birthplace. In the footage, crowds are seen waving the flag of the Islamic Republic. But Mojtaba Khamenei himself has yet to make a public appearance or speech. One woman told the channel: "We're very happy. Thanks to the Assembly of Experts. The hand of God is protecting us. Khamenei is still our leader." Another woman said: "It couldn't have been better than this. Our hearts were warmed." BBC Persian and BBC Verify have also verified video posted on social media on Sunday night which included chants of "Death to Mojtaba" and "Death to the lackey" in opposition to Mojtaba Khamenei, as well as chants of "Allahu Akbar" ("God is greatest") in support. The 56-year-old cleric largely kept a low profile during his father's rule, but there were longstanding rumours about his influence as a gatekeeper to the late supreme leader. US diplomatic cables, published by WikiLeaks in the late 2000s, described him as "the power behind the robes" in the regime who was widely regarded as a "capable and forceful leader". In addition to being close to the IRGC, he has been accused of interfering in presidential elections and commanding the paramilitary Basij force. One woman in her 40s in Tehran said she believed Mojtaba Khamenei was "worse than his dad". "If he's alive, I think the US and Israel will target him." Before he was selected as leader on Sunday, "everyone was chanting against Mojtaba," she said, adding: "No-one accepts him except the supporters of this regime." Supporters convened in Tehran's Enghelab Square on Monday to celebrate their new leader, while Iranian state TV broadcast large crowds gathering to pledge their allegiance on Sunday. People held pictures of Mojtaba Khamenei and his father, and waved flags as cars sounded their horns. "Now we are sure that the path will continue with his leadership," one man told Reuters news agency. A woman described her "profound happiness", saying Mojtaba Khamenei was "very much like his father". "Of all the possible candidates, he was the most deserving and the one most similar [to the former leader]." In Karaj, a city near Tehran, one resident said he had not heard much about Mojtaba Khamenei before his appointment. "Now it will become clear whether Trump has done a deal with them or not. They need to target him," the man in his 20s said. Another man said he believed "this means that nothing is going to change". "It's the same path, perhaps even worse," he added. "I don't think that he will last." Earlier this week, US President Donald Trump said he had wanted to play a role in the selection of Iran's new supreme leader, and that Mojtaba Khamenei was "unacceptable". And just hours before the appointment was announced, Trump said that, without his approval, whoever took over was "not going to last long". Israel also issued a warning before Ali Khamenei's son was confirmed as the new leader, saying it would "continue to pursue every successor". The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Coventry councillor from Iran says she and her husband have received death threats after backing the US-led action against the regime in her country. Mattie Heaven, a Conservative councillor on Coventry City Council, moved to Britain when she was 11 and is married to Iranian journalist and activist Vahid Beheshti. She says they have both been issued with fatwas by Iranian clerics, after they also urged the UK government to proscribe the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps' (IRGC) for its terror activities on British soil. Heaven said she was in almost daily contact with anti-terror police. "They say, 'If you feel the threat, call 999'. And I say by that time, it would be too late," she added. In a statement to the BBC, the Home Office said it had set out a "robust package of measures to counter the grave threat from the Iranian regime". A fatwa - a religious edict issued by Islamic clerics, normally on a point of religious law, but sometimes against an individual - was famously issued against author Salman Rushdie after the publication of his novel The Satanic Verses, in 1989. Both Heaven and Beheshti back the military strikes against the Iranian regime, with Heaven saying a change of government in Tehran will make the world a safer place. "This conflict is not just saving people inside Iran, it's for our safety and freedom and security here in the UK too," she said. "They say in their manifesto their aim is to make the world an Islamic state, so for years they've been funding terrorist proxies around the Middle East to destabilise the region by funding Hamas, Hezbollah and (the) Houthis." The couple accused the IRGC of being responsible for terrorist activity and the British government of not doing enough to ban the organisation from the UK three years ago. It led to Beheshti going on hunger strike outside the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, in a bid to persuade the UK government to proscribe the IRGC. This has so far not taken place, but in its statement, the Home Office said it had sanctioned the IRGC in its entirety. "[This includes] more than 550 individuals and entities and confirming that the whole Iranian State, has been placed on the enhanced tier of the new Foreign Influence Registration Scheme, which will increase transparency of Iranian influence activity in the UK," it added. However, because the IRGC has not been proscribed, Heaven says it makes it hard for UK police to do anything about the death threats. "The reality is they can do little because their hands are tied. Vahid is in front of the Foreign Office and he is safer there because of the cameras there," she said. "This is not a joke. The police are aware. the counter-terrorism police have met me several times they sympathise but in terms of action, we see zero action." Follow BBC Coventry & Warwickshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. PD Chip has sniffed out many items over the years including sim cards and trackers. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. More than 300 handwritten memories have been added to the exhibition so far, organisers say. Scott Duffin puts his Coventry memorabilia trove on public display, after five years of collecting. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Three more US bombers have landed in the UK after Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer approved "defensive" US action against Iranian missile sites from UK bases. The B-52 bombers that arrived at RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire earlier measure 160ft (49m) and are capable of launching missiles more than 1,500 miles (2414km). They join a fleet of US military planes now stationed at the base after a B-1 Lancer bomber arrived on Friday evening, followed by two more on Saturday. After granting the US permission to use RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire and Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean, the prime minister told MPs the government "does not believe in regime change from the skies". Air activity has increased significantly at RAF Fairford in the last 72 hours, with the United States putting in some of its heavy-duty bomber forces. This is the first time B-52s have been seen in the UK during this current conflict. The B‑52, piloted by a crew of five, is one of the US Air Force's longest‑serving and most versatile heavy bombers and can carry up to 70,000 pounds (31,751kg) of mixed weapons. It first flew in 1952, yet remains a core part of the United States' strategic power today due to its capacity, long range, and flexibility. Sir Keir had initially refused to grant permission for the US to use UK bases in its joint offensive with Israel against Iran, which caused a disagreement with President Donald Trump. But in a video statement released on Sunday, Sir Keir allowed the US request in the interest of "collective self-defence" of allies and protecting British lives, accusing Iran of pursuing a "scorched-earth strategy". The prime minister added the US would use UK bases for the "specific and limited defensive purpose" of destroying Iran's missiles "at source". The US and Israel began attacking Iran early on 28 February, with President Trump encouraging the Iranian people to remove the country's government. The Iranian regime has responded with attacks on US assets and countries in the region with a US military presence - including Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and Iraq. Sir Keir had said UK aircraft were "in the sky" in the Middle East as part of a defensive operation to protect its allies and citizens in the region, but said the UK "played no role" in the strikes. RAF Fairford, located on the border of Gloucestershire and Wiltshire, has been used by the US in the past to conduct long-range heavy bombing missions. It is one of the very few European bases certified to operate bombers like the B‑1, B‑52 and B‑2. This makes it far more efficient for operations targeting Iran, which is located far beyond the range of US-based flights without refuelling. Local residents have been complaining after a number of roads have been blocked in the area due to onlookers wanting to catch a glimpse of the bombers. A Gloucestershire Police spokesperson said officers were working to tackle parking issues created by plane spotters. "Work is ongoing with partner agency colleagues to ensure that crash gates, access roads and pavements remain clear. We are closing side roads to the crash gates to keep these usable but the issue of pavement parking continues. "Anyone visiting the area is asked to park responsibly as whilst plane spotting is a popular hobby, the safety of those people, members of the public and RAF staff is our priority," they added. Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. Zac Summers-Cameron died in 2025, aged 22, after his testicular cancer was originally misdiagnosed. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Lester Murphy says he wants to inspire others who have been diagnosed the neurological disorder. A collection of photos from Bristol, Somerset, Wiltshire and Gloucestershire in early spring. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The eruption of the US-Israel war with Iran has brought with it consequences that extend far beyond the Middle East. The region plays a key role in global energy supplies and shipping routes, prompting concerns that everything from heating bills to supermarket shopping baskets could become more expensive. Here are five ways the conflict might affect your day-to-day life. The crisis has caused an immediate rise in fuel prices, as production and transport of oil and gas across the region has slowed or stopped entirely in many cases, but it is unclear how this may play out over the coming weeks and months. As of last Monday in the UK, petrol cost an average of 132.14p per litre at the pump while diesel cost an average of 142.15p per litre, weekly government figures show. Meanwhile, the most recent data from the RAC motoring organisation shows that since the war began, average UK petrol prices have risen by 4.68p to 137.51p a litre. Diesel has increased by 8.59p to 150.97p. In the US, average petrol prices had risen to $3.02 (£2.26p) per gallon last Tuesday from $2.94 per gallon the Tuesday before the war started, while diesel had risen from $3.81 to $3.90 over the same period. These early increases are well below those seen in 2022 after Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine. In the week before the invasion, unleaded petrol cost an average of 147.77p per litre in the UK. Less than fourth months later, in early July, it had jumped by more than 43p per litre. In the US, prices for petrol and diesel peaked at over $5 a gallon in June 2022. UK gas prices have doubled since the beginning of the conflict. The benchmark UK price was below 80p before the conflict began. It briefly hit 171p a therm when trading started on Monday, before slipping back to about 156p a therm. There have been concerns the current crisis could have a similar impact to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, but so far the UK gas price is significantly below the peak of more than 600p a therm experienced in 2022. That unprecedented rise prompted the UK government to step in with an energy bills support scheme — giving millions of households £400 off their energy bills for the winter of 2022-23. UK consumers are protected from any immediate change in global gas prices by the energy price cap, which is in place at its current level until July. But if gas prices stay high, this could translate to a higher price cap for the summer. Traffic through the crucial Strait of Hormuz has almost completely stopped after Iran threatened to "set fire" to ships, with about 200 tankers effectively stranded. Meanwhile, insurance premiums, particularly on vessels considered American, British, or Israeli, have risen significantly because of the perceived higher risk of attack. Last week, data from the London Stock Exchange Group showed the cost of hiring a supertanker to move oil from the Middle East to China reached an all-time high of more than $400,000 (£298,300) per day, almost double the cost the previous week. Sanne Manders, president of logistics technology platform Flexport, says rising fuel costs means carriers are likely to start raising rates globally, not just in the Middle East, as transport becomes more expensive. The vast majority of the world's traded goods are transported by sea. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), shipping costs are an "important driver of inflation". But while rises can affect prices of imports at the dock within a few months, the impact on prices at the cash register "builds up more gradually, hitting its peak after 12 months", it said in analysis from 2022. The IMF said last week it was "too early" to assess the economic impact of the Iran conflict on the region and globally, as this will depend on its extent and duration. Fertilisers are a crucial part of food production. They are relied upon by farmers to give crops the nutrients they need to grow enough food, and the Middle East is a major producer of key fertiliser ingredients. The Strait of Hormuz waterway is a key route for fertiliser and for natural gas which is used to produce fertilisers. The halting of traffic there has prompted fears of shortages and increased prices. In addition, QatarEnergy, one of the world's biggest exporters of gas and a producer of urea for use in fertiliser, has stopped production following "military attacks" on its facilities. The benchmark US price of urea hit $578 a tonne on Monday, soaring by almost a quarter. Experts say it is too early to tell if the rise in fertiliser prices will translate to higher prices on supermarket shelves and that any change wouldn't be instant. The Gulf is where Europe gets around half of its jet fuel from. As such, since the fighting in the region began, the European benchmark jet fuel price has almost doubled, going from $830 per tonne to more than $1,500. These are the highest prices the industry has seen since 2022, in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Fuel typically makes up 20-40% of airlines' operating costs. This means flights could become more expensive, while any shortage of fuel could mean some flight cancellations. However, the impact might not be equal across the board. Many airlines, such as British Airways and EasyJet, use contracts to get their fuel at fixed or capped prices for months, or even years, in advance. By contrast, a number of large US carriers do not do this and could be exposed to short-term price increases as a result. Inflation, the rate that prices rise, has been falling in the UK and globally in recent months. In February, UK inflation fell to 3% and the Bank of England (BoE) said before the current conflict it believed inflation could reach its 2% target by as soon as April. In the US, inflation eased to 2.4% in January, slightly above the Federal Reserve's 2% target, while the Eurozone was expected to see a rise from 1.7% in January to 1.9% in February, after sustained falls. There are concerns the war could reverse the overall downward trend, meaning prices would rise at a faster rate for consumers. If that happens, central banks across the world may be less likely to cut interest rates in the months ahead, as they try to curb rising prices. Analysts are now speculating there may be fewer cuts than expected this year in the UK, and some are predicting a rise. This would mean more expensive mortgage rates for people on deals that "track" the BoE's rate and for those fixing new deals. On the other hand, banks could pass on any increased rates to savers who would get higher returns on their money. Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Dawn Fearns says the custard slice tour is also a nostalgic reminder of her childhood and late mother. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Iranian warship Iris Dena was given permission by India to dock three days before it was torpedoed by a US submarine, India has said. Foreign Minister S Jaishankar said Iran had sought permission for three of its ships to dock at Indian ports on 28 February - the day the US and Israel began a war on Iran - and permission was granted by India on 1 March. The ships' movements between 1 and 4 March are not clear and nor is why only one of them made it to India. The sinking of the Iris Dena, with 130 sailors on board, in international waters off Sri Lanka's southern coast on 4 March marked a dramatic widening of the war - and raised questions about India's authority in its backyard. It was the first military strike outside the Middle East since the US and Israel launched their war on Iran. President Donald Trump has said destroying Iran's navy is one aim of the assault. The three Iranian ships - Iris Dena, Iris Bushehr and Iris Lavan - had all participated in a military exercise hosted by India between 15 and 25 February in the coastal city of Visakhapatnam. They left Indian waters on 25 February and were likely to have been in international waters on 28 February - when the US and Israel began attacking Iran. "The Iranian side had requested permission on 28 February for three ships in the region to dock at our ports. This was accorded on 1 March," Jaishankar told parliament on Monday. "Iris Lavan actually docked on 4 March in Kochi. The crew is currently in Indian naval facilities. We believe that this was the right thing to do." On 4 March, Iris Dena sank after being hit by a torpedo fired from a US submarine, killing at least 87 of its crew members. According to the Indian Navy, the Iris Dena was operating about 20 nautical miles - roughly 23 miles (37km) - west of Galle in waters that fall under Sri Lanka's designated search-and-rescue zone on the day it was struck. The US tracks vessels across the world's oceans, and a quarter of its submarine fleet of 65-70 is at sea at any given time, according to analysts. Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said last week the US had "perpetrated an atrocity at sea, 2,000 miles away from Iran's shores" and that the warship was "struck in international waters without warning." Later, Sri Lanka said it had provided sanctuary for Iris Bushehr on 5 March, a day after it requested for docking following an engine malfunction. Eventually, India also confirmed that Iris Lavan was docked in its southern city Kochi. The BBC has written to the Iranian embassy in India and India's external affairs ministry seeking clarification on the movements of the three Iranian naval vessels after Delhi granted them permission to dock. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth has touted the attack on Iris Dena as an example of America's military prowess, claiming it was "the first sinking of an enemy ship by a torpedo since World War Two". While it is the first time since 1945 that an American submarine has sunk an enemy ship this way, the UK and Pakistan have both sunk vessels using torpedoes since then. The Iris Dena was one of about 20 Iranian navy vessels destroyed since Israel and the US launched co-ordinated strikes on Iran. Follow BBC News India on Instagram, YouTube, Twitter and Facebook. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iranians have told the BBC about the moment several oil depots were hit by strikes overnight, as the US and Israel continue their attack on the country. One resident said "it was as if night had turned into day". Fuel depots were hit in Tehran and Karaj, west of the capital, according to local news agencies, citing a source in Iran's oil ministry. Video showed a street on fire in Tehran near one depot, where a man could be heard saying shops and homes were ablaze. "Karaj was calm for a day but now it's turned wild again – they've blown it up," one resident told the BBC. Another man in his 30s from Karaj said "it started with a red light that lit up everything followed by a wave that jolted the door". "Then the sky was lit again and a huge red cloud appeared. We didn't know what was happening," he said, adding that he went up to his rooftop and saw the local oil depot on fire. The BBC is not revealing the identities of the Iranians we speak to for their own protection. Iranian authorities have said they are monitoring air quality in the capital and have asked residents to stay at home. Esmaeil Baqaei, spokesman for the Iranian foreign ministry, said the strikes "are releasing hazardous materials and toxic substances into the air", which are "endangering lives on a massive scale". A woman from Tehran said the city was covered in smoke. "You can smell the burning. I can't see the sun. There is a horrible smoke. It's still there, I'm very tired." Another man from Karaj said the strike on the depot caused a "huge explosion and it was on fire for hours". The US-Israeli strikes on Iran, which began with the assassination of Iran's Supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, are now in their second week. Iran has responded by launching its own strikes at US allies and assets across the region. Mojtaba Khamenei, the son of Ali Khamenei, has been chosen as his successor. US President Donald Trump has justified attacking Iran by saying its government posed an imminent threat to the United States, citing Iran's nuclear programme. Iran says its nuclear programme is entirely peaceful. The US-Israeli attacks have killed at least 1,332 Iranian civilians and wounded thousands, according to Iran's UN ambassador, Amir Saeid Iravani. But some Iranians in Tehran told the BBC that they still supported the strikes. "We the people have taken refuge in our homes and are eagerly awaiting the destruction of the government so we can take to the streets like we did before," one man in his 20s from Tehran said. He said that state television has been warning that anyone who "speaks or acts in favour" of the US, Israel or Reza Pahlavi, the exiled son of Iran's last shah, "will be killed". Another woman in Tehran said the war was "terrifying" but said that it was a price worth paying for removing the current regime. "Maybe it's hard to understand for people who aren't here, but for ordinary people there really was no other choice. Otherwise, believe me, we wouldn't want to pay such a huge price for war." "Iranians aren't warmongers or foolish - they've just suffered so much that they've reached their limit, and all they want is a normal life." But another woman from Tehran feared what they could face if the war ends with the current regime still in power. "Even if the war ends and we survive alive… I'm sure the costs will be very high and it will be worse than before for a long time. Especially if these remain in power," she said. "I can't even tell who would take power." BBC Persian is the Persian language service of BBC News, used by 24 million people around the world - the majority in Iran - despite being blocked and routinely jammed by Iranian authorities. You can get in touch by following this link Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Mojtaba Khamenei will replace his father, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as Iran's new supreme leader. A statement by the Assembly of Experts - an 88-member clerical body tasked with selecting the supreme leader - was read aloud by a presenter on state TV. Mojtaba Khamenei takes over from his father - who was killed in the first wave of US and Israeli strikes last week - as the country's spiritual leader and highest authority. Many expect Mojtaba Khamenei to continue his father's hardline policies. The presenter on state TV announced the decision, saying that it came "despite the acute wartime conditions and the direct threats of the enemies against this popular institution". The Assembly of Experts "did not pause even for a moment in the process of selecting and introducing the leadership of the Islamic system", he added. The presenter then shouted "Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar, Khamenei is the leader". The US and Israel are yet to comment on the decision, but both governments are likely to object to the appointment. US President Donald Trump said he wanted to play a role in the selection of Iran's new leader. While he signalled he would be open to someone linked to the old leadership taking over, he has made clear his opposition to Mojtaba Khamenei. "Khamenei's son is unacceptable to me," Trump said earlier this week. Just hours before the appointment, Trump said that, without his approval, whoever takes over is "not going to last long". Israel issued a warning before Khamenei's second son was confirmed as the new supreme leader - saying that they will "continue to pursue every successor" to the late ayatollah. Unlike his father, the 56-year-old has largely kept a low profile. He has never held government office, nor given public speeches or interviews, and only a limited number of photos and videos of him have ever been published. Born on 8 September 1969 in the northeastern city of Mashhad, Mojtaba is the second of Ali Khamenei's six children. He received his secondary education at the religious Alavi School in Tehran. At age 17, Mojtaba Khamenei served in the military for several short periods during the Iran-Iraq War, according to Iranian media. The eight-year bloody conflict made the regime even more suspicious of the US and the West, which supported Iraq. In 1999, Mojtaba Khamenei went to Qom, a holy city which is considered an important centre of Shia theology, to continue his religious studies. It is notable that he did not wear clerical clothing until this time. Despite his low profile, there are longstanding rumours about his influence as a gatekeeper to his father. US diplomatic cables, which were published by WikiLeaks in the late 2000s, described him as "the power behind the robes" who was widely regarded as a "capable and forceful leader" within the regime, according to the Associated Press. He has been accused of having hands in presidential elections, commanding the Basij militia, and maintaining close ties with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). In 2019, Mojtaba Khamenei was sanctioned by the US as part of a group of individuals "who are appointees of or have acted for or on behalf of" his father. The US-Israeli strikes on Iran are now in their second week. Iran has responded by launching its own strikes at US allies and assets across the region. Trump has justified attacking Iran by saying its government posed an imminent threat to the United States, citing Iran's nuclear programme. Iran says its nuclear programme is entirely peaceful. The US-Israeli attacks have killed at least 1,332 Iranian civilians and wounded thousands, according to Iran's UN ambassador, Amir Saeid Iravani. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Mojtaba Khamenei, the son of Iran's Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was killed in US-Israeli strikes, has been chosen as his successor. Unlike his father, the 56-year-old has largely kept a low profile. He has never held government office, nor given public speeches or interviews, and only a limited number of photos and videos of him have ever been published. But for years there have been rumours that he held considerable influence behind the scenes in Iran. US diplomatic cables, which were published by WikiLeaks in the late 2000s, described him as "the power behind the robes" who was widely regarded as a "capable and forceful" figure within the regime, according to news agency AP. Yet his selection could still prove controversial. The Islamic Republic was founded in 1979 after the monarchy was overthrown and its ideology is based on the principle that the supreme leader should be chosen for his religious standing and proven leadership, not through hereditary succession. During his reign, Ali Khamenei spoke only in general terms about the future leadership of the Islamic Republic. One member of Iran's Assembly of Experts - the clerical body that selects the supreme leader - said two years ago that Ali Khamenei opposed the idea of his son being a candidate for future leadership. But he had never publicly addressed such speculation. Born on 8 September 1969 in the north-eastern city of Mashhad, Mojtaba is the second of Ali Khamenei's six children. He received his secondary education at the religious Alavi School in Tehran. At 17, Mojtaba served in the military for several short periods during the Iran-Iraq War, according to Iranian media. The eight-year bloody conflict made the regime even more suspicious of the US and the West, which supported Iraq. In 1999, Mojtaba went to Qom, a holy city which is considered an important centre of Shia theology, to continue his religious studies. It is notable that he did not wear clerical clothing until this time, and it is unclear why he decided to attend a seminary at 30, as it is more usual to do so in one's younger years. Mojtaba remains a mid-ranking cleric, which could pose an obstacle to his acceptance as the new supreme leader. Before he was selected, some media outlets and officials close to centres of power in Iran began referring to Mojtaba Khamenei as "Ayatollah", a senior clerical title. The shift appeared to some observers as an attempt to elevate his religious standing and present him as a credible leader. In the seminary system, holding the rank of "Ayatollah" and teaching advanced classes are regarded as indicators of a person's scholarly level and knowledge, and are considered one of the requirements and prerequisites for a future leader. But there is already precedent for this. His father, Ali Khamenei, was quickly promoted to "Ayatollah" after he became Iran's second supreme leader in 1989. Mojtaba's name first entered the public spotlight during the 2005 presidential election, which resulted in the victory of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, a populist hardliner. In an open letter to Khamenei, reformist candidate Mehdi Karroubi accused Mojtaba of interfering in the vote through elements of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and the Basij militia, which distributed money to religious groups in order to help Ahmadinejad win. Four years later, Mojtaba faced the same accusation again. The re-election of Ahmadinejad triggered mass protests across the country, known as the Green Movement. Some protesters chanted slogans opposing the idea that Mojtaba could succeed his father as Iran's supreme leader. Mostafa Tajzadeh, the then-deputy interior minister, described the result as an "electoral coup". He was imprisoned for seven years, which he attributed to "the direct wish of Mojtaba Khamenei". Two reformist candidates, Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karoubi, were put under house arrest after the 2009 election. In February 2012, Mojtaba met and urged Mousavi to give up his protest, Iranian sources told BBC Persian. Now, as Iran's freshly chosen supreme leader, many expect Mojtaba to continue his father's hardline policies. Some also believe that a man who has lost his father, his mother and his wife in US-Israeli strikes will be unlikely to bow to Western pressure. But he also faces the daunting task of ensuring the survival of the Islamic Republic and convincing the public that he is the right person to lead the country out of political and economic devastation. His leadership record remains largely untested, and the perception that the republic is turning into a hereditary system could further deepen public discontent. Mojtaba is now a marked man. Israel's defence minister said last week that whoever was chosen as Ali Khamenei's successor would be "an unequivocal target for elimination". Additional reporting by Grace Tsoi and Mark Shea The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The son of a British woman and her partner imprisoned in Iran has said he is bringing his campaign for their freedom to Washington. Lindsay and Craig Foreman were detained by Iranian authorities in January 2025 while travelling the world. The East Sussex couple were sentenced to ten years behind bars on 17 February in what the family called a "sham trial" where they were not allowed any defence. War has since broken out between Iran and the US and Israel, which Lindsay's son Joe Bennett said has pushed the pair's situation in prison to a "terrifying breaking point". Conditions are "deteriorating rapidly", said the family. "Access to clean water is limited, staffing levels are falling, and prisoners fear shortages of basic food supplies," they continued. The family said that on 28 February - when the US and Israel began striking Iran - a bomb exploded so close to the ward of Tehran's Evin Prison where Craig is being held that plaster was sent "raining down" on the inmates. Lindsay, who is also in the facility and was on the phone to her son at the time, described a scene of "mass hysteria" as women dived under their bunk beds for cover, they added. The family said the legal process inside Iran has effectively collapsed amid the conflict, with the courts reportedly targeted in recent airstrikes. Iran's government is widely believed to be using the Foremans, who were detained on espionage charges, as bargaining chips with the West. "My parents are not spies," said Bennett, from Folkestone in Kent. "They are innocent tourists who have been taken hostage." Bennett added that the couple "appear" to have been abandoned by the UK government. He said officials have still not formally recognised Lindsay and Craig as being held arbitrarily, while the prime minister and foreign secretary have not responded to a petition he delivered to Downing Street earlier this year. "There are British citizens in real and immediate danger," Bennett continued. The Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office has previously said it continues to raise the couple's case directly with the Iranian authorities. "We continue to provide Craig and Lindsay with consular assistance and remain in close contact with their family members," a spokesperson has said. Bennett is set to address the United States Capitol on 12 March at the Transatlantic Conference on Hostage-Taking and Arbitrary Detention. Follow BBC Kent on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Israel's President Isaac Herzog has told the BBC his "mind boggles" at questions over the legality of the war on Iran, saying it was necessary for self-defence in the face of Tehran's nuclear and military ambitions. Iran's leaders had not adhered to international law themselves, he told the Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg programme, adding that the joint offensive with the US would make the region and Europe safer. Herzog also defended Israel's ongoing offensive against Hezbollah in Lebanon, saying it was "doing [the Lebanese government's] work for them" to dismantle the armed group. Last week, senior ministers reportedly raised concerns about the legal basis for the war when debating UK involvement. Britain has not participated in offensive operations but has allowed the US to use its air bases to carry out "defensive" strikes against weapons being used in retaliatory attacks across the Middle East. Pressed on doubts over the legality of the war, Herzog said it was "quite amazing" to question it "when you think about the fact that Iran did not adhere to any rule of international law", and given concerns in the UK over Iranian-backed domestic security threats. In October, MI5 said it had identified 20 "potentially lethal" Iran-backed plots since January 2022. The Israeli president pointed to the killing of Iranian protesters earlier this year, its backing of armed proxies in the region, and a drone attack against a British air base in Cyprus as evidence of the threat posed by Iran. He continued: "It mind boggles me that [legality] is the focus rather than on the future of the Middle East and doing peace in the Middle East." Herzog said the war is "clearly self-defence, which is not only self-defence for us but self-defence for Europe, for Britain, for the entire region - look how they are bombarding all their neighbours". Israel also launched a new offensive against Hezbollah after the Iran-allied group fired missiles over the border in response to the killing of Iran's Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei. Israel has hit targets in southern Lebanon and southern suburbs of the capital Beirut, where the group has a strong presence, while its troops have pushed further over the border into the country. Herzog told the BBC that Israel had been "attacked vehemently by missiles" launched by Hezbollah, and that the government in Lebanon "object to it totally" but "don't have the power" to disarm them. On Sunday, Lebanon's health minister said the death toll in the country had risen to 400, while the Israel Defense Forces said two soldiers had been killed in southern Lebanon. Meanwhile, Seyed Ali Mousavi, the Iranian ambassador to the UK, said Iran would act in its own "self-defence" if the UK joined offensive operations. On Saturday, US President Donald Trump strongly criticised Sir Keir Starmer, accusing him of seeking to "join wars after we've already won" and signalling he would reject an offer of further military assistance from Britain, which he described as "our once great ally". Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper told the BBC that Starmer had been "right to stand up for Britain's interests" in his position on the war, adding that the UK government would not agree with Trump "on every issue". Starmer and Trump spoke on the phone on Sunday, their first direct conversation in over a week. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has told the UK he does not need its aircraft carriers and accused Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer of seeking to "join wars after we've already won", as the US and Israel continue to launch strikes on Iran. In a social media post, Trump said the UK was "giving serious thought" to sending two aircraft carriers to the Middle East, before saying the US does not "need them". Downing Street has not responded. One of the UK's two aircraft carriers has been placed on advanced readiness, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) confirmed earlier on Saturday. Trump's comments came after US bomber jets were seen landing in the UK as the US started using British bases for "specific defensive operations". "The United Kingdom, our once Great Ally, maybe the Greatest of them all, is finally giving serious thought to sending two aircraft carriers to the Middle East," Trump wrote on Truth Social on Saturday. "That's OK, Prime Minister Starmer, we don't need them any longer - But we will remember. "We don't need people that join Wars after we've already won!" Speaking on Air Force One in response to a question about the use of UK bases in the war, Trump referred to his post on Truth Social, saying: "We don't need them," appearing to reference the carriers. He added: "It's not the right time. It would have been nice to have them two weeks ago." The UK government has defended its decision not to join initial US and Israel strikes on Iran, and has remained clear that it has no interest in joining the wider offensive campaign in the Middle East. Earlier in the week, the prime minister told MPs: "President Trump has expressed his disagreement with our decision not to get involved in the initial strikes, but it is my duty to judge what is in Britain's national interest." While Sir Keir has not responded directly to Trump's post, he earlier wrote in the Sunday Mirror that "at moments like this, the country needs seriousness, not political games". "While opposition parties seek to undermine Britain on the world stage, my Labour government is focused on protecting British people at home and abroad," he added. Conservative leader Kemi Badenoch has accused the prime minister of being "too afraid" to make decisions and "sitting on the fence" over the conflict in the Middle East. Speaking at the Conservative Spring conference on Saturday, she said "we are in this war whether Keir Starmer likes it or not". The back and forth between Trump and Sir Keir began after the UK initially refused to permit the US to use UK bases for its joint offensive with Israel against Iran. Sir Keir later approved "defensive" US action against Iranian missile sites from RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire and Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean, and said the UK government "does not believe in regime change from the skies". The UK prime minister said the decision was made after the situation changed last Sunday when Iran's "outrageous" response became "a threat to our people, our interests and our allies". The crew of HMS Prince of Wales in Portsmouth have been told they must be ready to leave in five days. This has raised speculation the carrier may be deployed to the Mediterranean to help defend British interests threatened during the conflict in the Middle East - but people inside Sir Keir's government are playing down that idea. The UK's other aircraft carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth is out of action for the foreseeable future. The UK has already said it will deploy a Royal Navy warship after an RAF base in Akrotiri in Cyprus has been targeted by drones. HMS Dragon - which has air defence capabilities - is being sent to the Mediterranean to bolster security around the base, but will not set sail until next week. Trump told the BBC's US partner, CBS News, on Saturday: "It's a little bit late to be sending ships, right? A little bit late." Pressed on whether US allies could do more to assist US operations in Iran, Trump said: "I couldn't care less. They can do whatever they want. The loyal ones are already in." Trump told journalists in the Oval Office earlier this week he was "not happy with the UK" over the initial decision to refuse use of UK bases, which led to US planes "flying many extra hours" to carry out strikes last weekend. He also told reporters Sir Keir is "no Winston Churchill". Sir Keir has insisted the "special relationship" between the US and the UK had not been fractured while speaking to reporters on Thursday. "Look, the special relationship is in operation right now," he said. "We're sharing intelligence on a 247 basis in the usual way. That is the special relationship." On Friday, a US B-1 bomber was seen landing at RAF Fairford, in Gloucestershire. For many months Sir Keir has pointed to his relationship with Trump as one of the biggest successes of his premiership. That is no longer the case. This is just the latest example of President Trump being openly critical towards the prime minister, and it is clear he is still angry the UK blocked him from using British bases when he first launched strikes against Iran. Meanwhile, former Prime Minister Sir Tony Blair - who led the UK into the Iraq war - told a private event that the US was an "indispensable cornerstone" of the UK's security, and that allies should "show up" regardless of who the current president is. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
One of the UK's two aircraft carriers has been placed on advanced readiness to sail from Portsmouth. The crew of HMS Prince of Wales have been told they must be ready to leave in five days, defence sources said. This may raise speculation the carrier could be deployed to the Mediterranean to help defend British interests threatened during the conflict in the Middle East. Before this, the ship's "notice to sail" was 14 days. On Saturday night, US President Donald Trump criticised Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer for not sending carriers to the Middle East earlier. In a post on Truth Social, Trump said: "The United Kingdom, our once Great Ally, maybe the Greatest of them all, is finally giving serious thought to sending two aircraft carriers to the Middle East." He added: "That's OK, Prime Minister Starmer, we don't need them any longer - But we will remember. We don't need people that join Wars after we've already won!" The UK government has not joined offensive operations with regard to Iran or given any commitment to do so. The government has been accused of not acting fast enough to protect Cyprus from enemy drones and missiles. Sir Keir denied the UK was not prepared for the conflict, saying Britain had begun pre-deploying assets to the region earlier this year - particularly to Qatar and Cyprus - alongside the US and other allies. Defence sources said 400 additional UK personnel had been sent over the past weeks to support air defence activities across the UK's bases in Cyprus. Meanwhile, more US B-1 Lancer bombers have arrived at RAF Fairford. A Type 45 destroyer, HMS Dragon, has been deployed to the region but will not be ready to leave Portsmouth until next week. HMS Prince of Wales is in Portsmouth receiving routine maintenance ahead of a planned deployment to the North Atlantic and Arctic later this year. The carrier strike group was due to take part in Operation Firecrest alongside US, Canadian and European allies to deter Russian aggression in the High North. A defence source told the BBC the Prince of Wales had had "her readiness increased to five days' notice to sail". The MoD confirmed the change in status for the carrier. A ministry spokesperson said: "We have been bolstering our UK military presence in the Middle East since January, and we have already deployed capabilities to protect British people and our allies in the region, including Typhoons, F-35 jets, air defence systems and an extra 400 personnel into Cyprus. "Since the strikes began, we've had British jets in the sky shooting down drones and have sent additional assets to the region to further reinforce our air defences, including more Typhoons and Wildcat helicopters with drone busting missiles. "HMS Prince of Wales has always been on very high readiness and we are increasing the preparedness of the carrier, reducing the time it would take to set sail for any deployment." HMS Prince of Wales is one of the Royal Navy's most powerful surface warships and is capable of sailing 500 miles per day. It is over 900ft (280m) long and can carry up to 24 F-35B stealth jets, plus helicopters and drones, with 1,600 personnel. The MoD also confirmed the US had started using British bases "for specific defensive operations". The first B-1 arrived at RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire on Friday evening, followed by three more of the jets and a C-5 airlifter on Saturday. Dozens of anti-war protesters gathered outside the base, carrying flags and placards. A smaller group of people also attended in support of the UK military. In London, thousands of protesters called for an end to attacks on Iran, which they said were illegal, unprovoked and unjustified. Marching towards the US Embassy, they held placards saying "Hands off Iran" and "Stop Trump's Wars". In a separate protest headed from Downing Street to the Iranian Embassy, other demonstrators called for a free and democratic Iran. While much of the anger on the anti-war march was aimed as the US president, protesters were clear that the UK should not blindly follow the US into a war in the Middle East. Sir Keir has come under mounting criticism for his approach to the crisis. Last week, he defended his decision not to permit the US to use British bases in the opening assault against Tehran, arguing that the government must keep a "cool head". But on Saturday, Conservative leader Kemi Badenoch renewed her attacks on the prime minister's approach, saying he was "too scared to make foreign interventions." Sir Keir Starmer says it is "deeply concerning" the rapper is set to headline a festival after recent antisemitic comments. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A former Irish president has said the attacks by the United States and Israel on Iran are "illegal and breach international law". Mary Robinson made her comments while addressing a rally in Belfast on International Women's Day. "Women and the civil society in Iran have been suffering over the years and suffering very badly, especially recently," she said. The march and rally was attended by more than 2,000 people who heard calls for solidarity and opposition to the current western military action in the Middle East. Robinson said the suffering women and civil society had endured in Iran did not justify "an aggressive war" and that it was "causing even more misery". The conflict began after the US and Israel launched wide-ranging strikes on Iran, killing the country's supreme leader on 28 February. Iran has carried out widespread missile and drone attacks across the region in response. Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Oman and Iraq have all been hit, as has an RAF base in Cyprus. The theme of International Women's Day this year was 'Strength in Solidarity'. An Iranian academic was among those who attended the event. Azadeh Sobout, from Queen's University Belfast, told the rally she opposed the current regime, but did not support the attacks. She added that regime change "could not be delivered from the sky". "We reject authoritarianism, we reject monarchy and we reject imperial war because liberation cannot come with the machinery that produces mass deaths," she said. "Our solidarity is with the people and not the state." Emma Smith attended the rally with her mum. "It's so amazing to see women come together every year," she said. "It's my favourite part of the year spending it with my mum and her friends from work. It just makes me proud to be who I am and proud of my mum." She said the messages from "reclaiming the agenda", "war, genocide" and "educating your sons instead of having to protect daughters" resonated with her. "It should be: 'Don't hurt women'... and that's my favourite message of the day." Emma's mum, Lesley Bracken, works for Women's Aid. Lesley said she "always brought her daughter up to be an independent woman, to take up space and to be who she is". "We need to stand up for women's rights and yes, we're glad to be here and I'm glad my daughters come with me , we've been here quite a few years and I'm glad to see so many people out," she said. She said she attended the march to support women from "all walks of life". There were issues raised that were closer to home as well. Sharon Coyle from Surviving Economic Abuse told the crowd one in six women in Northern Ireland experienced economic abuse. "It's about deliberately making sure that when a woman tries to leave an abuser that she can afford to," she said. "And if you can't afford to leave where do you actually go? "From the high rates of domestic homicide that we have here in the north of Ireland we know that many women end up remaining trapped with dangerous abusers and that can cost them their lives." Favour Okpohs is an international student and the vice-president of a local students' union. She said the rally "means raising the awareness that women can be safe in their own city, in their own country, on the streets, going home, late nights - we shouldn't be scared of going home". "Coming together like this we can create that environment for safety. Safety is very important," Favour added. "Strength in Solidarity means that we can stand together to say that: 'Our streets need to be safe again, our city needs to be safe again, everyone is welcome here. We do not need to fear, we do need to look over our shoulders when walking home'." A wreath was laid by the Irish President Catherine Connolly at the General Post Office (GPO) in the Irish capital and in Belfast thousands of people turned out for a parade in the west of the city. The disorder, which happened before the Irish Cup semi-final at Windsor Park, saw fireworks, flares and bottles thrown. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A yellow weather warning for wind came into force at 14:00 BST on Saturday and ended at 03:00 BST on Sunday. The new rules will be introduced in October and are described as the most significant reform of driver licensing for 70 years. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Iranian ambassador in London has warned the UK to be "very careful" about becoming further involved in the war. Seyed Ali Mousavi told Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg his country would have a "right to self-defence" if the UK directly joined US-Israeli attacks on Iran. He warned that Iran expected the British government, and others, "to be very delicate, very careful" in their actions. The UK has given permission for the US to use British bases for what ministers describe as defensive strikes on Iranian facilities, but has not taken part in any direct attacks itself. The ambassador said it was "good" that the UK was not "involved with this aggression", adding he believed the British government had learnt lessons from the 2003 invasion of Iraq. Despite the Iranian president's apology to its Gulf neighbours on Saturday, Mousavi made clear Iran would continue to attack US bases if strikes on Iran continued. Days of strikes across the Middle East have caused enormous disruption and damage in many different countries. Mousavi said that "if facilities or properties or bases are used against the Iranian nation", they would be considered "legitimate targets". In the last few hours, Gulf countries including Qatar and the UAE have been hit by Iran, while the US and Israel have continued their attacks as the war enters a second week. In an exclusive interview with the BBC to be broadcast on Sunday, Mousavi was asked if Iran would stop its attacks on military bases outside Israel in other parts of the Middle East. He said there is "willingness from the Iranian side not to strike, not to attack our neighbours". But he maintained that Iran had the right to continue striking targets across the whole region where there were military bases. Mousavi said Iran's response "depends on the activities of the Americans and the Israeli regime". "If the aggression… continues there is no doubt we will defend ourselves," he said. "And if they want to use these military bases - although we don't want to do that - there is no doubt we will defend ourselves accordingly." It has been more than seven days since the US and Israel began strikes on Iran, which led Tehran to retaliate with its own attacks across the region. Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Oman and Iraq have all been hit, as has an RAF base in Cyprus. In spite of President Masoud Pezeshkian's apology, reports from the region suggest Iranian strikes have not stopped. Qatar and the UAE both said on Saturday afternoon they had intercepted missiles targeting them. Pezeshkian's message has not been universally welcomed inside Iran, with some hardliners criticising the tone as weak. It is rare for the leadership of a country like Iran to apologise, let alone in public. And it is rare for a representative of Iran to agree to be interviewed. But in the wake of the president's apology, Iran's ambassador to the UK agreed to our request to speak to him, and even more unusually, invited us to speak to him in Iran's embassy in London, a building that tells the story of the fraught and troubled history between Iran and the West. The building, on the edge of London's Hyde Park, is where five Iranian gunmen were killed after a dramatic siege that was brought to an end by SAS commandos in 1980. Nineteen hostages were set free, but one died and two were injured in the crossfire. The gunmen belonged to a dissident Iranian group opposed to Ayatollah Khomeini, the religious leader. Like his president in Tehran, the ambassador plainly wanted to make the case that Iran was only responding to aggression from Israel and the United States, and that it was not trying to put other citizens in the Middle East in danger, or to prolong the war unnecessarily. But the way in which Iran has responded by attacking so many different countries across the region, in a way that Western officials see as indiscriminate lashing out, tells a different story. And speaking to us next to a large banner of the supreme leader, who was killed last week, ambassador Mousavi made it obvious that Iran will not stop strikes on Israel or on American military bases in the Middle East, wherever they are located, for as long as Israel and America's attacks continue. The ambassador vehemently denies that Iran has been the source of the conflict, and dismissed outright US President Donald Trump's demand that his country surrender. Iran has said sorry for some of the disruption to its neighbour. But that apology plainly does not in any way mean an end to this war. Watch the full interview on Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg on BBC One at 09:00 GMT. Sign up for the Off Air with Laura K newsletter to get Laura Kuenssberg's expert political insight and insider stories every Thursday. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian surprised many observers when he apologised to Iran's neighbours for recent strikes against them, during an address delivered on Saturday morning as part of the country's interim leadership. Apologies between states are rare, particularly during active conflict, and the wording stood out. Leaders usually express "regret" or distance themselves from responsibility. Pezeshkian instead directly acknowledged that neighbouring countries had been targeted and said Iranian forces had now been asked to stop striking them unless attacks on Iran originate from their territory. "I deem it necessary to apologise to neighbouring countries that were attacked," he said. "We do not intend to invade neighbouring countries." That alone raises the first question: was this a genuine apology, and why now? One possibility is that the interim leadership is trying to contain the widening regional fallout. Some countries in the region have been caught in the crossfire after strikes launched by the United States and Israel on Saturday 28 February. Pezeshkian suggested these attacks were carried out under "fire at will" instructions after the initial wave of strikes killed senior Iranian commanders and disrupted central command structures. By apologising, he may be trying to signal that Tehran does not want to escalate the war into a broader regional confrontation. The message also implicitly acknowledges a political reality: even if some neighbouring countries allowed US forces to operate from bases on their territory, Iran risks isolating itself further if it openly targets them. But whether the apology translates into policy is far less clear. Reports from the region indicate that strikes linked to Iran or its forces have not yet stopped. Qatar and the UAE both said on Saturday afternoon they had intercepted missiles targeting them. If attacks like this continue, it raises a deeper question about control within Iran's fractured leadership structure. Since the first wave of attacks killed key figures, including Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, decision-making has shifted to an interim leadership council. In theory, that structure gives figures like Pezeshkian more influence than they previously had under a system dominated by a single supreme authority. In practice, however, the ability to control powerful military and security institutions such as the Revolutionary Guards remains uncertain. If Iranian-linked strikes on neighbouring states continue despite the president's statement, it would suggest either breakdowns in communication or resistance from factions unwilling to scale back the confrontation. Hardline elements within the security establishment have long argued that regional pressure is Iran's strongest deterrent against US and Israeli military power. Domestic reactions also reflect that tension. Some hardliners have already criticised Pezeshkian's remarks as weak. The current political moment in Iran is unusual: several of the most powerful hardline figures at the top of the system are gone, but many lower-ranking officials and commanders remain deeply suspicious of any conciliatory tone. For them, apologising to foreign governments risks appearing as capitulation at a time of national crisis. Outside Iran, the reaction has been shaped by a very different narrative. Donald Trump quickly claimed on Truth Social that Iran had "apologised and surrendered" to its neighbours, arguing that the move proved US and Israeli military pressure was working. The language also reveals how Washington may interpret Tehran's signals. Trump has repeatedly insisted that the only acceptable outcome is Iran's "total surrender". That demand creates a diplomatic paradox. Historically, countries rarely accept unconditional surrender under air campaigns alone, no matter how intense the bombing. Without ground forces, forcing such an outcome is extremely difficult. Interpreting Pezeshkian's apology as a form of capitulation could therefore serve as a political bridge for Washington: a way to claim progress without formally abandoning the demand for surrender. For Pezeshkian and the interim leadership council, the calculation may be different. Achieving a ceasefire now could stabilise the situation before a new permanent leader emerges. If the next figure to dominate Iran's political system were a hardline cleric, the prospects for diplomacy could become even narrower. That possibility raises another strategic question: is Pezeshkian positioning himself as a negotiable figure, the kind of pragmatic leader Western governments might prefer to deal with? In his address, he tried to balance defiance and openness, rejecting surrender while signalling restraint towards neighbouring states. At the same time, the struggle over Iran's future leadership is already beginning to take shape. Various political and clerical figures, as well as commanders within the IRGC and the security forces, may see the current crisis as an opportunity to strengthen their position. Some are calling on the Assembly of Experts to move quickly to choose the next leader. If Pezeshkian fails to deliver stability or assert control over the armed forces, rivals could argue that a more hardline approach is needed. For now, the immediate test lies outside Iran's borders. So far, many neighbouring countries have responded cautiously or remained silent, waiting to see whether the apology leads to real changes on the ground. Israel, which views the conflict as a rare chance to weaken what it sees as Iran's long-term threat, may be less inclined to interpret the message as a genuine step towards de-escalation. The ambiguity may be deliberate. Pezeshkian's apology leaves room for several interpretations: a genuine attempt to calm regional tensions, a tactical move to buy time for Iran's interim leadership, or the opening signal of a political repositioning inside Tehran itself. In a conflict shaped as much by internal power struggles as by external war, it may be all three at once. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Dozens of demonstrators have been protesting outside RAF Fairford, which is being used by US forces as a base to strike Iran. A US bomber capable of carrying 24 cruise missiles landed at the Gloucestershire site on Friday and three more arrived earlier. Sir Keir Starmer recently approved the use of UK bases for "defensive" US action against Iranian missile sites. Two of the protesters – from Wiltshire, near the base – said they hoped their demonstration would "signal" that "the British public are not necessarily behind this by any means". A much smaller group also arrived at the protest in support of the UK military. It has been more than seven days since the US and Israel began strikes on Iran, which led Tehran to retaliate with its own attacks across the region. Kuwait, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Oman and Iraq have all been hit, as has an RAF base in Cyprus. Liz Maison Pierre and Lorna Dixon were among the 50 to 60 protesters at RAF Fairford. They said they believed "a lot of people are going gung-ho into this war without any thought". "Starmer needs to stand up and say, 'No, don't use our bases'," they added. Chris Cole – from Drone Wars UK, an organisation that stands against armed drones – was part of the group. He said: "It's important people stand up and say no to what's going on. We're out here to say on behalf of the public that we disagree with this." However, a handful of others attended to show their support for the UK military. Nick Franklin, from Patriots! Stand Up Gloucestershire, said: "Nobody wants war but we also don't want to be walked all over." He said he would tell the other protesters to "grow up", adding: "Get involved and get behind our military." The group believe the US-Israel war with Iran will benefit the Iranian people. Gloucestershire Constabulary attended the protest to "enable lawful peaceful protest". President Trump earlier vowed to hit Iran "very hard". He said the US military was considering new targets in the country. Meanwhile, Iran's ambassador to the UK has told the BBC there is "willingness" not to strike its neighbours – but he said the country would defend itself. Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. Zac Summers-Cameron died in 2025, aged 22, after his testicular cancer was originally misdiagnosed. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Lester Murphy says he wants to inspire others who have been diagnosed the neurological disorder. A collection of photos from Bristol, Somerset, Wiltshire and Gloucestershire in early spring. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The head of the British military has told the BBC he "completely rejects" criticism that the UK had been ill-prepared for the conflict in the Middle East. Speaking on Saturday as war continued in the region, Chief of the Defence Staff Sir Richard Knighton said it was "probably the most dangerous time of the last 30 years". Some have questioned the UK's response, in particular around the sending of a Royal Navy ship to Cyprus to protect the UK military base, RAF Akrotiri, which was targeted by a drone. Sir Richard said the UK had been "bolstering our presence" in the region for several weeks but did not give a timeline for the arrival of HMS Dragon, which remains in Portsmouth. He said the Type 45 destroyer would leave "in the next few days, as soon as it's got ammunition on board" but did not say how long it would take to arrive in the Mediterranean. The ship had been undergoing maintenance on the south coast. France and Greece have already deployed assets towards Cyprus. Sir Richard said the drone targeting the RAF base was assessed to have launched from Lebanon by an Iranian-aligned group. He disagreed with claims the UK's action had started too late and said his priority was to protect British people and interests, echoing the words of Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer earlier in the week. Sir Richard said it became clear early on "that Iran's response was going to be much broader, wild and indiscriminate, and rather reckless compared to what we saw in the 12-day war last summer". He added that in the days since the latest conflict started, the UK assessed its options to increase its presence and ability to defend allies and its own interests. Leader of the Opposition Kemi Badenoch accused Sir Keir of "sitting on the fence" over the UK's response to the Middle East conflict. Speaking on Saturday at the Conservative Party's Spring Conference in Harrogate, North Yorkshire, Badenoch said that "at a time when Britain needs strong and decisive leadership, we have a prime minister who is too afraid of making the wrong decision, too afraid to make any decision at all". "We are in this war, whether Keir Starmer likes it or not," she added. Badenoch said Britain has been described as "weak" and that our allies have "accused the UK of deserting them, going missing in action". While the UK was "dithering", the US, Greece and France have all sent ships to Cyprus, she said. "Ours is stuck in Portsmouth Harbour, and may set sail some time this week," Badenoch added in reference to HMS Dragon. The military chief said demands on defence were "rising" but denied that cuts to the armed forces had slowed down the UK's response. Downing Street has also rejected suggestions the government failed to provide enough military assets in the Middle East after RAF Akrotiri was hit. After the war started on Saturday, the UK was "well set with our posture that had been built up over several weeks", Sir Richard said and the proposed response was signed by ministers by Tuesday. He added that additional typhoons, F-35 jets and over 400 people had been sent to Cyprus to help protect and defend the country's airspace. It comes as the US landed its first bomber in the UK on Friday after the prime minister approved "defensive" US action against Iranian missile sites from UK bases. Sir Keir had initially refused to grant permission for the US to use UK bases in its joint offensive with Israel against Iran, which led to criticism from US President Donald Trump. The B-1 Lancer, the fastest in the US Air Force and capable of carrying 24 cruise missiles, arrived into RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire on Friday evening. Three more B-1 aircraft arrived at the UK military base on Saturday morning. The aircraft has been used in the past by the US to conduct long-range heavy bombing missions. The US-Israeli war with Iran is in its eighth day and strikes continue to be fired across the region. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth has said that strikes on Iran are "about to surge dramatically". Sir Richard said he was "absolutely confident" the US would adhere to using UK military bases purely for "defensive" purposes. When asked if the UK would get more involved in the conflict, he said the military would "keep all options under review" but his focus was "on protecting our interests and our people right across the region". A third charter flight is due to leave Muscat, Oman on Sunday, the Press Association reported, as the government continues efforts to bring Britons back from the Middle East. There have been widespread airspace closures across the region, impacting major airports and commercial routes in Dubai, Qatar and Abu Dhabi among others. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A US bomber capable of carrying 24 cruise missiles has landed in the UK after Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer approved "defensive" US action against Iranian missile sites from UK bases. Sir Keir had initially refused to grant permission for the US to use UK bases in its joint offensive with Israel against Iran, which caused a disagreement with President Donald Trump. The arrival of the huge aircraft comes after US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said on Thursday that strikes on Iran were "about to surge dramatically". The 146ft (44.5m) B-1 Lancer arrived at RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire on Friday evening. Trump told journalists in the Oval Office earlier this week he was "not happy with the UK" over the decision, which led to US planes "flying many extra hours" to carry out strikes last weekend. After granting the US permission to use RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire and Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean, the prime minister told MPs the government "does not believe in regime change from the skies". RAF Fairford, located on the border of Gloucestershire and Wiltshire, has been used by the US in the past to conduct long-range heavy bombing missions. The B-1 bomber weighs 86 tonnes and is the fastest bomber in the US Air Force, according to Boeing, hitting speeds of more than 900mph (1,448.4kmh). Nicknamed "the Bone", the US bomber has advanced radar and GPS systems to help hit targets, and electronic jammers, radar warnings and a decoy system to protect it from enemies. Military analyst and former British Army Officer Justin Crump said the B1-Lancer is "one of the most significant bombers in the world" and is capabable carrying large bomb loads a long way, quickly, if it needs to. Crump, the CEO of private intelligence firm Sibylline, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that "shuttling from RAF Fairford is a lot more efficient" and "makes sense" for the US as the commute from the US to Iran and back is lengthy. The war between Israel, the US and Iran entered its eighth day on Saturday. Overnight, explosions rocked Tehran following Trump's assertion that there will be "no deal" with Iran except "unconditional surrender". Elsewhere, the UK has also faced criticism over its response to drone attacks on the RAF's Akrotiri base in Cyprus. Downing Street rejected suggestions the government failed to provide enough military assets in the Middle East after the base was hit. Sir Keir told reporters on Thursday protective measures at the airbase have always been in place. The drone strike on the British military base caused "minimal damage" and did not result in any casualties. The British warship HMS Dragon - which has air defence capabilities - is being sent to Cyprus but will not sail until next week. The Type 45 Destroyer had been earmarked to carry out a different mission - before Sir Keir Starmer confirmed on Tuesday that HMS Dragon would be deployed to the Mediterranean region. Two Royal Navy Wildcat helicopters are separately expected to arrive in Cyprus sooner than the warship. But speaking to BBC Breakfast, Conservative leader Kemi Badenoch said: "They need to do more than that, they need to stop the missile sites, you need to go to the source." Badenoch has stepped up her calls for the government to allow RAF to strike Iran's missile launch sites. With the Gulf states, including Bahrain, Qatar, the UAE and Saudi Arabia, having been targeted by Iran in the conflict, Sir Keir spoke to Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman on Friday. The prime minister assured the kingdom's de facto leader that the UK "stood ready to support the defence of the kingdom" if needed, a Downing Street spokeswoman said. The prime minister said "additional British fighter jets, helicopters and a destroyer were being sent to the region", the spokeswoman added. The conflict in the Middle East has led to thousands of flights being cancelled in the past week, leaving many Britons stranded - but some flights have resumed. A second government chartered flight to bring UK nationals home landed at Gatwick Airport at 00:30 GMT on Saturday. The flight departed from Oman's capital Muscat on Friday, the Foreign Office confirmed. The first flight, which landed at Stansted Airport on Friday morning, was delayed by 24 hours following "technical issues". And, airlines Etihad and Emirates have confirmed they will continue running a limited number of services from Abu Dhabi and Dubai to the UK over the next few days. Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. Zac Summers-Cameron died in 2025, aged 22, after his testicular cancer was originally misdiagnosed. Sir Keir Starmer says it is "deeply concerning" the rapper is set to headline a festival after recent antisemitic comments. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Lester Murphy says he wants to inspire others who have been diagnosed the neurological disorder. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least one of the US aircraft downed in an apparent friendly fire incident over Kuwait was from a UK airbase, evidence suggests. Three American jets were accidentally shot down by Kuwaiti air defences on Sunday. All six aircrew ejected safely and were recovered. Identifying markers on the suspected wreckage of one of the F-15E Eagles indicate it was from RAF Lakenheath in Suffolk. The US Air Force (USAF) would not confirm the origin of these aircraft. The BBC has examined two videos said to show the downed aircraft. Their origin could not be determined but both depict the same wreckage and were shot at different times. Analysis by BBC Verify indicated both were recent with no evidence of AI-manipulation. We have not been able to precisely geolocate the area where the footage was shot to confirm it was in Kuwait, but visual evidence is consistent with the wreckage being of a Lakenheath-based jet. In one of the videos, a prominent serial number can be seen in the remains of the aircraft's wheel housing. It matches 91-0327 LN, the serial number of an F-15E Strike Eagle from the 492nd Squadron of the USAF's 48th Fighter Wing, which reportedly deployed to the Middle East from Suffolk last month. German aviation journalist Dalibor Ankovic shared images he took of the F-15E taking part in Exercise Ocean Sky in the Canary Islands last November. The 48th Fighter Wing also publicised its participation in this exercise. The numbers and their placement on the wheel housing shown in Ankovic's pictures exactly match those in the video. This proved the aircraft in the wreckage video and the one in his pictures were the same, he said. A distinctive red marking seen on the inner wheel hubs matches officially released images of F-15s undergoing maintenance at RAF Lakenheath. RAF Lakenheath directed all inquiries to US Central Command (Centcom), which would not be drawn on the units to which the aircrew belonged. Centcom said that on 1 March, three US F-15E Strike Eagles flying in support of its operations over Iran, codenamed Operation Epic Fury, "went down over Kuwait due to an apparent friendly fire incident". Its statement said: "During active combat – that included attacks from Iranian aircraft, ballistic missiles, and drones – the US Air Force fighter jets were mistakenly shot down by Kuwaiti air defences. Kuwait had acknowledged this incident, it added. The US military has not publicised which F-15E units have been deployed to the Middle East as part of Operation Epic Fury. But open source and plane spotter reports indicate that as well as jets from Lakenheath, aircraft from the 4th Fighter Wing at Seymour-Johnson Air Force Base in North Carolina, and the 366th Fighter Wing at Mountain Home Air Force Base, Idaho, have been sent. Follow Suffolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
When Hamid heard news of the death of Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei a week ago today, he felt a wave of euphoria and took his wife and daughter into the street outside his home in Tehran to celebrate. For the next few days, as US and Israeli bombs slammed into buildings across the capital, the family went onto the roof of the house to watch the airstrikes coming in, cheering every time a regime target was hit. "Try to find anywhere else on this earth where the population would be happy with an external attack on their country," he told me, via a cousin in the UK. "But we now have hope that the regime will soon be gone. We are happy." Hamid - not his real name - is not alone. Alongside colleagues from BBC Persian, we have been hearing from people inside and outside Iran on a momentous week for them, for the future of their country and for the entire region. BBC Persian is the Persian language service of BBC News, used by 24 million people around the world - the majority in Iran - despite being blocked and routinely jammed by Iranian authorities. In a police state under bombardment, with severe internet restrictions in place, it is impossible to fully gauge the mood across a vast nation of 90 million people. Residents of Tehran have received messages warning: "If your connection to the internet continues in the coming days, your line will be blocked and you will be referred to judicial authorities." The regime still instils fear and no one who voices any opposition to it is willing to give their name for fear of the repercussions on them or their family. But a week on, while some people are still celebrating every strike on the regime, others are increasingly frightened, questioning the motives and endgame of the war. "The goal of this war isn't to bring about freedom or democracy for the Iranian people," Ali told us. "It's for the geopolitical benefit of Israel, the US and Arab countries in the region." Mohammad, who is in his 30s and lives in Tehran, said that he had wanted a deal between the US and Iran that would have avoided the war. "Deep down, I always hoped an agreement would be made," he said. He had thought that he would be happy at Khamenei's death, but in the end "felt nothing". He told my colleague Soroush Pakzad that he is now filled with uncertainty about the future - and, with regime checkpoints everywhere on the ground and bombardments from the sky, he is afraid. Others Iranians speak of feeling a mix of fear, stress and hope. One woman told me that I would have to live in Iran for 40 years to understand the complexity of what she and other Iranians are now feeling. "We laugh and are happy when the regime is hit, but when children die and our infrastructure is destroyed, we worry about the future of our country," she said. There are no opinion polls in Iran but most Iranians appear to despise a regime that has brought such immense suffering to them. While it still has large numbers of die-hard supporters, its many opponents are split between those cheering on the US and Israel, and those who are deeply suspicious. Saeed told us: "Trump's government – from top to bottom – they're all lying. They had no reason to attack Iran. Other than Israel wanted them to." Aside from pronouncements from the regime itself, we are hearing far fewer voices from its supporters. Nor have we heard from those who have suffered the most - the parents of the children killed on 28 February in a strike on an elementary school in the southern town of Minab. It was the deadliest known attack of the war so far. But several Iranians have told the BBC that after 47 years of the Islamic Republic, they are so desperate to see the back of it that the current war is their only hope of freedom. Hamid's cousin in the UK - who is one of several million Iranians living in exile now - encapsulated the conflicted feelings of many in a Whatsapp message to the BBC last Saturday. "I hate wars, I don't want a single innocent human being  killed or harmed no matter which side they are on, but I'm jumping for joy at the news of the attacks this morning. "I know, it's contradictory and mad but it's the truth. The thought that the dream of freedom from the murderous Ayatollahs might finally be turning into a reality is making me giddy with joy." As the week ended, we asked for her help getting back in touch with Hamid. His cousin was not able to get through. "Please don't judge me," she said. "But I think the strikes must continue. They have to finish the job." Hamid had told her that the airstrikes were mostly well-targeted against the "bad" people. But we are also hearing of a growing list of civilian casualties, including many children, in a country where there are no bomb shelters or sirens. According to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA), more than 1,000 civilians have been killed so far, including nearly 200 children. When the war began, HRANA was still trying to identify thousands of protesters killed in the regime's crackdown on a nationwide uprising in January. Iranians remain traumatised by the scale of the bloodshed when the regime's security forces opened fire on unarmed demonstrators. Saman, not his real name, from Isfahan, personally knew six people who were gunned down on the streets of the central city at that time - and now two of his relatives have been killed by separate airstrikes in Tehran. He messaged Soroush Pakzad from BBC Persian at the end of the week saying that the situation in Isfahan was "truly terrifying", with body parts on the street around one target. He described himself as being in shock and anger, saying: "I never imagined in my worst dreams that we would become this war-stricken." My colleague Ghoncheh Habibiazad, who has been collecting voices from inside the country, says the views of some people have changed as the war has continued, as they did not expect it to go on after Khamenei was killed. A young woman in her 20s in Tehran, who said she was "over the moon" when they targeted the supreme leader, told Ghoncheh six days later: "I'm neither happy nor sad now - just tired." Do you have family in Iran? You can get in touch anonymously via this link or by using the form below. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Pakistani man with ties to Iran has been found guilty of plotting to assassinate US politicians and officials. Asif Merchant, 47, hired a hitman in New York to kill prominent American officials and targeted US President Donald Trump in 2024. After a week-long trial in Brooklyn amid the US-Israel war with Iran, a federal jury convicted him of murder for hire and attempted terrorism transcending national boundaries. A lawyer for Merchant, who could face life in prison, said there are still "complex and significant legal issues yet to be decided". According the US Department of Justice, Merchant was a trained operative of the Iranian government's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and was in the US to look for potential IRGC recruits. Merchant arrived in the US from Pakistan in April 2024 after having spent time in Iran. In June of that year, he contacted a person who he believed could help with the assassination plot and that contact later reported him to the police. He met with undercover US law enforcement officers who were posing as hitmen in New York, according to the US Attorney's Office in the Eastern District of New York, and law enforcement foiled the plot before any attack could be carried out. He was arrested that July before leaving the country. At trial, Merchant admitted that the IRGC sent him to the US to arrange for political assassinations and that his IRGC handler directed him to kill Trump, former US president Joe Biden and Trump cabinet official Nikki Haley, according to the BBC's US partner, CBS News. The plot was meant to avenge the 2020 death of top Iranian general Qasem Soleimani, he said. But Merchant argued that he "had no other option" than to go along with the plot because his handler indicated that he knew who Merchant's Iranian relatives were and where they lived. He said he had anticipated being arrested before anyone was killed and intended to cooperate with the US government, CBS reported. He had hoped that would help him obtain a green card. The jury deliberated for less than two hours before returning its verdict on Friday, US media said. "Iran's terrorist regime sent Asif Merchant here to sow mayhem and murder," US Attorney Joseph Nocella Jr said. "Thanks to the vigilance of our law enforcement partners, his scheme ended in failure. Today, with Merchant's conviction, that failure is complete." In a statement to the BBC, Merchant's lawyer Christopher Neff said he was "disappointed in the result" but grateful for the jury's careful attention and hard work. "Nevertheless, as Judge Komitee noted, there are complex and significant legal issues yet to be decided. We remain confident that we will ultimately achieve a favorable result for Mr Merchant," he said. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. A former US marine tells the BBC the priority of any recovery team would be to look for signs of life. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Up until late on Thursday the rise in global oil markets appeared to be more of an unfortunate bump than imminent oil shock. The immediate response to the closure of the Strait of Hormuz, a 10% price increase, appeared rather benign for what was long-assumed to be the oil market's nightmare scenario. On Friday the situation changed, pennies started to drop. The intervention from the Qatari Energy minister Saad al-Kaabi that all Gulf energy providers were likely to halt export in days, and $150 a barrel of oil was coming, sparked oil markets into life. Crude oil ended up 27% since the conflict began. Derivative petrochemical products vital for livelihoods, and industrial supply chains that are also dependent on free passage in the Gulf, from jet fuel, to urea, are also spiking in price. While this is not yet an energy shock, the markets are starting to assume worse scenarios if not yet the worst case. It won't take much for oil to breach the $100 barrier next week. Iran has not actually formally closed the Strait. They have de facto been closed voluntarily as insurance costs soar, and sailors fear for their safety. The net result is a wave of inflationary pressures emanating from the conflict zone, and upsetting global markets for energy, fuel, food, industrial chemicals, and credit. On Monday night I gently suggested that forecasts from the Office for Budget Responsibility, the UK government's independent forecaster, could prove rather out of date even before publication on Tuesday. The extent of that mismatch has surprised me, four days on from the Spring Statement and a week into this conflict. On Tuesday the price of a barrel of crude oil was assumed to be $63. It closed at $94 on Friday. A therm of gas delivered to the UK was assumed to cost 74 pence. It is £1.35, and got as high as £1.70 this week. The gilt rate, the effective interest rate on 10-year government borrowing was assumed to be 4.4%, it ended the week at 4.6%, having nearly hit 4.7%, a significant difference. The UK's bonds have been hit more than other countries as traders recall the UK's sensitivity to energy price inflation during the Russia-Ukraine crisis. The essential bet is that the Bank of England (BoE) will rein in interest rate cuts as inflation stays sticky. All this came just at the moment when the markets had started to give credit to the government for the speed of its planned fall in borrowing. There is immediate feed through into the mortgage market. Home mortgages are being repriced by banks who had just started to show some confidence that rates were coming down. There will be no mortgage price war while all this is going on. The BoE, which had been heavily backed to cut rates this month, is now expected to wait and see. Of course, these clouds might lift, but US President Donald Trump seems to be suggesting a conflict of weeks or months. Some of the economic warnings from the Gulf may be a way to focus his mind. It isn't just about the stoppage in the flow of energy through its most important artery. From Bahrain's oil facilities, to Qatar's gas processing, the port near the Dubai Palm, or tankers near Kuwait, there have been a pattern of attacks that raise questions about a conscious Iranian strategy to up the economic price for the US-Israeli attacks. The economic consequences are not an accidental byproduct of this conflict, they are an intrinsic aspect of the war. This makes the precise consequences very difficult to predict, but this new wave of inflation from the Gulf will wash up on the shores of the rest of the globe, including here in the UK. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has demanded Iran's "unconditional surrender" as the American and Israeli military continued to launch strikes. Trump said the US and allies would make Iran "economically bigger, better, and stronger than ever before" after it picked "acceptable" new leadership. With the war close to entering a second week, it remains unclear who will lead Iran after the killing of Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei a week ago, or on what terms the US would end its offensive against Tehran, which has triggered region-wide retaliatory strikes. Speaking on Friday, White House spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt said the administration expected military operations to last four to six weeks. Writing on his Truth Social platform, Trump said: "There will be no deal with Iran except UNCONDITIONAL SURRENDER! "After that, and the selection of a GREAT & ACCEPTABLE Leader(s), we, and many of our wonderful and very brave allies and partners, will work tirelessly to bring Iran back from the brink of destruction, making it economically bigger, better, and stronger than ever before. "IRAN WILL HAVE A GREAT FUTURE. MAKE IRAN GREAT AGAIN (MIGA!)." Trump's latest intervention suggested he was not interested in a negotiated settlement to the war, though he stopped short of calling for regime change. Since the beginning of the conflict, Trump has avoided the term "regime change", a sign he may be wary of drawing parallels between the attack on Iran and past US wars in the Middle East that he criticised before entering politics. Other senior administration officials have made that argument on Trump's behalf in recent days, saying the president will not let the US get drawn into a protracted, open-ended conflict like in Iraq and Afghanistan. Asked about the duration of the offensive, Leavitt told reporters: "We expect [the war] to last about 4 to 6 weeks, and we are well on our way to achieving those objectives, annihilating Iran's navy." She also said Trump did not want Iran to be led by "a radical terrorist or a regime that chants death to America". The White House press secretary told reporters: "[Trump] wants to take an interest in and pursuing who the next leader of the Iranian country is going to be. And that has yet to be seen, the president is discussing it." Earlier this week, Trump told US outlet Axios he expected to play a role in the selection of Iran's next leader. Responding to reports that Khamenei's son Mojtaba - a conservative close to Iran's powerful Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps military wing - could be installed as leader, Trump said that would be "unacceptable". Trump has likened the situation in Iran to the US raid on Venezuela earlier this year, in which he removed the country's leader from power and publicly backed a successor. In January, the president ordered troops to seize Nicolás Maduro in a surprise operation, with the administration throwing its support behind his deputy, Delcy Rodríguez. The two countries restored diplomatic relations on Thursday. Elsewhere, three sources, including a senior American official with direct knowledge, told the BBC's US news partner CBS News that Russia had provided intelligence on American positions to Iran. Officials said the targeting information included the locations of American warships and aircraft in the Middle East. Asked about the report, Leavitt said it was "not making a difference". Russia has long been an ally of Iran. Tehran has provided Moscow with thousands of Shahed drones to be used by Russian troops during the last four years since President Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of neighbouring Ukraine. Throughout that time, the US has provided Ukraine with weapons as well as – crucially – intelligence that has helped Ukrainian troops attack Russians. Putin's office said on Friday he has spoken with Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian over the phone, expressing his condolences for the deaths of Iran's supreme leader, other government officials and civilians around the country in the US-Israeli strikes. The Kremlin said Putin had reiterated Russia's stance that the hostilities must end immediately, and that a diplomatic resolution must be found. Pezeshkian expressed gratitude for Russia's support and provided a detailed report of Iran's developments, the statement said, adding that both Iran and Russia agreed to maintain communications with each other. On Friday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Russia remained in dialogue with Iran's leadership, but he declined to say whether the two countries were continuing military co-operation. Asked about the claim of Russia helping Iran, US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said in an interview with CBS' 60 Minutes programme that Trump is "well aware of who's talking to who". As the war enters its second week it has expanded across the Middle East after Iran-backed Hezbollah launched attacks against Israel, which prompted the Israeli government to launch strikes against Lebanon on Monday. On Friday large explosions were seen in Lebanon's capital Beirut. Prior to the strikes the Israeli military ordered hundreds of thousands of people to leave the south of the city. Hezbollah has also warned Israelis living within 5km (three miles) of the Lebanese border to leave their homes. As part of Iran's retaliation against the US-Israel attacks, drone and missile strikes have also been reported in countries hosting US bases including Qatar, Bahrain, Jordan, the UAE and Kuwait - and US-allied Oman and Saudi Arabia. Elsewhere, a British military base in Cyprus was struck by a drone on Sunday, according to the UK Ministry of Defence. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
On 17 February, the Indian Navy posted a cheerful message on X. "Welcome!" it wrote, greeting the Iranian warship Iris Dena as it steamed into the port of Visakhapatnam to join an international naval gathering. Photographs showed sailors in crisp whites and a grey frigate gliding in the sea harbour on a clear day. The hashtags spoke of "Bridges of Friendship" and "United Through Oceans". Two weeks later the ship, carrying 130 sailors, lay at the bottom of the Indian Ocean. It had been torpedoed by a US submarine off Sri Lanka's southern coast on 4 March. Commissioned in 2021, the Dena was a relatively new vessel - a Moudge-class frigate of Iran's Southern Fleet, which patrols the Strait of Hormuz and the Gulf of Oman. According to US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth, the vessel "thought it was safe in international waters" but instead "died a quiet death". Rescue teams from Sri Lanka have recovered at least 87 bodies. Only 32 sailors survived. The sinking marks a dramatic widening of the war between America, Israel and Iran. And, though it occurred in international waters of the Indian Ocean and outside India's jurisdiction, it is an awkward moment for Delhi. "The war has come to our doorsteps. That is not a good thing," says retired Vice Admiral Arun Kumar Singh. For some strategists, the episode carries broader implications for India's regional standing. Indian strategic affairs expert Brahma Chellaney wrote on X that the US torpedoing of the Iranian warship in India's "maritime neighbourhood" was "more than a battlefield episode" - calling it a "strategic embarrassment" for Delhi. "By sinking a vessel returning from an Indian-hosted multilateral exercise, Washington effectively turned India's maritime neighbourhood into a war zone, raising uncomfortable questions about India's authority in its own backyard," Chellaney wrote. Just days before its destruction, the Dena had been a diplomatic guest of the Indian Navy. The ship had travelled to Visakhapatnam, a sun-washed port city on India's east coast, to participate in the International Fleet Review 2026 and Exercise Milan, a large multilateral naval exercise meant to showcase India's growing maritime leadership. Seventy-four countries and 18 warships took part in the events, which Delhi described as a demonstration of its ambition to become the Indian Ocean's "preferred security partner". Visiting ships at such multilateral exercises usually do not carry a full combat load of live munitions, unless scheduled for a live-fire drill, according to Chellaney. Even during the sea phase, when drills and live firing take place, ships carry only tightly controlled ammunition limited to the specific exercises. Singh, an invitee to the event, recalls seeing the warship and its Iranian sailors in Visakhapatnam just days before its fate changed. "I saw the boys marching in front of me," he says of the Iranian naval contingent during the parade along the seafront, just 10m away. "All young people. I feel very sad." He says on 21 February, the assembled ships - including the Iranian vessel - sailed out for the sea phase of Exercise Milan, scheduled to run until 25 February. "What happened next is less clear: the ship may have returned to port or peeled away after exercises. Either way, the waters where it was later sunk - off Galle in Sri Lanka - lie only two to three days' sailing from India's east coast," Singh says. What the ship was doing in the seven days in between is not clear. Singh, who has commanded submarines, believes the sequence leading up to the attack was probably straightforward. The US, he notes, tracks vessels across the world's oceans. "They would have known exactly when the ship left and where it was heading," he says. A fourth of America's submarine fleet of 65-70 is at sea at any given time, according to analysts. According to the Indian Navy, the Iranian warship had been operating about 20 nautical miles west of Galle - roughly 23 miles (37km) - in waters that fall under Sri Lanka's designated search-and-rescue zone. The attack, Singh says, appears to have involved a single Mark-48 torpedo, a heavyweight weapon carrying about 650 pounds of high explosive, capable of snapping a ship in two. Video footage suggests the submarine may have fired from 3-4km away, around 05:30 local time. The aftermath was grim and swift. The warship reportedly sank within two to three minutes, leaving little time for rescue. "It's a miracle they managed to send an SOS," Singh says, which was picked up by the Sri Lanka Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre in Colombo. According to the Indian Navy, a distress call from the Iranian warship was picked up by Colombo in the early hours of 4 March, triggering a regional search-and-rescue effort. The navy said in a statement that Sri Lanka's navy began rescue operations first, while India moved to assist later. The Indian Navy deployed a long-range maritime patrol aircraft to support the search and kept another aircraft with air-droppable life rafts on standby. A naval vessel already operating nearby reached the area by late afternoon. Another ship, which sailed from the southern Indian port city of Kochi to join the effort, continues to comb the waters for survivors and debris. Under the Second Geneva Convention, countries at war are required to take "all possible measures" to rescue wounded or shipwrecked sailors after a naval attack. In practice, however, this duty applies only if a rescue can be attempted without putting the attacking vessel in serious danger. Singh says submarines are rarely able to help. "Submarines don't surface," he says. "If you surface and give up your position, someone else can sink you." Singh suspects the speed of the sinking - and possibly sparse shipping in the area at the time - meant few nearby vessels could respond. "A ship breaking up that fast leaves almost no chance," he says. In a shooting war, Singh says, the legal position is blunt. Fighting between the United States and Iran had been under way since 28 February, with claims that 17 Iranian naval vessels had already been destroyed. "When a shooting war is on, any ship of a belligerent country becomes fair game," he says. Many questions remain. Why was the Iranian warship still in waters near Sri Lanka nearly a week after leaving India's naval exercise? Was it heading home, or on another mission? And how long had the US submarine been tracking it before firing? For Delhi, the episode is diplomatically awkward. India has drawn closer to Washington on defence while maintaining long-standing political and economic ties with Tehran - a balancing act the war has made harder. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called broadly for "dialogue and diplomacy" to resolve conflicts, but has neither addressed the sinking of the Iranian vessel directly nor criticised the American strike. Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi described the attack as "an atrocity at sea" and stressed that the frigate had been "a guest of India's Navy". Meanwhile Sri Lanka has taken control of another Iranian naval vessel off its coast after an engine failure forced it to seek port, a day after the US attack. The episode has nonetheless sparked debate within India's strategic community. Kanwal Sibal, a veteran diplomat, argued that India's responsibility may not be legal, but it is moral. "The Iranian ship would not have been where it was had India not invited it to the Milan exercise," he wrote on X. "A word of condolence at the loss of lives of those who were our invitees would be in order." Others like Chellaney have framed the issue in more strategic terms. He described the strike as a blow to India's maritime diplomacy. The torpedoing of the frigate in "India's maritime backyard", he argued, punctured Delhi's carefully cultivated image as a "preferred security partner" in the Indian Ocean. "In one torpedo strike, American hard power has punctured India's carefully cultivated soft power," says Chellaney. As the debate gathered pace in strategic circles, India's official response remained cautious. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on X that he had held a telephone  conversation with Araghchi, and also posted a photograph of a meeting with Iran's Deputy Foreign Minister Saeed Khatibzadeh at a foreign policy summit in Delhi. For military historian Srinath Raghavan, the legal position is clear: once the Iranian vessel left India's shores, Delhi had no formal responsibility. The strategic message, however, is harder to ignore. "First, the spreading geography of this war. Second, India's limited ability to manage its fallout," says Raghavan. "Indeed, the US Navy has fired a shot across the bow aimed at all regional players, including India." One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An unprecedented wave of AI-generated misinformation about the US-Israel war with Iran is being monetised by online creators with growing access to generative AI technology, experts have told BBC Verify. Our analysis has found numerous examples of AI-generated videos and fabricated satellite imagery being used to make false and misleading claims about the conflict which have collectively amassed hundreds of millions of views online. "The scale is truly alarming and this war has made it impossible to ignore now," says Timothy Graham, a digital media expert at the Queensland University of Technology. "What used to require professional video production can now be done in minutes with AI tools. The barrier to creating convincing synthetic conflict footage has essentially collapsed," he says. The US and Israel began launching strikes on Iran on 28 February. In response, Iran has launched drone and missile attacks on Israel, as well as multiple Gulf nations and US military assets in the region. Many have turned to social media to search for and share the latest information and to help make sense of a fast-moving week of conflict. The platform X announced this week it will temporarily suspend creators from its monetisation programme if they post AI-generated videos of armed conflict without a label. The scheme rewards eligible users whose posts create large numbers of views, likes, shares and comments with payments from the platform. "It's a notable signal that they've noticed that this is a big problem," says Mahsa Alimardani, a researcher specialising in Iran at the Oxford Internet Institute. We asked TikTok and Meta, the company of Facebook and Instagram, if they intend to take similar action, but they did not respond to our requests for comment. A typical example of an AI-generated video that BBC Verify has tracked appears to show missiles striking the city of Tel Aviv in Israel as the sound of explosions rings  out in the background. This video has been featured in more than 300 posts which have then been shared tens of thousands of times across social media platforms. Some X users turned to the platform's AI chatbot Grok to confirm the video's veracity. But in many cases seen by BBC Verify, Grok wrongly insisted that the AI-generated video was real. Another fake video, viewed tens of millions of times, claims to show Dubai's Burj Khalifa skyscraper in flames, while a crowd of people seem to be running towards the building. This AI-generated footage spread widely online at a time of considerable concern from residents and tourists about the drone and missile strikes on the city. "Fake videos like these have a detrimental impact on people's trust in the verified information they see online and make it much harder to document real evidence," says Alimardani. A new feature of this conflict analysed by BBC Verify is the emergence of AI-generated satellite imagery. We verified multiple real videos showing Iranian drone and missile strikes on the US Navy's Fifth Fleet headquarters in Bahrain on the first day of the conflict. A fabricated photo, shared on X by the state-linked newspaper The Tehran Times, began to spread the following day and claimed to show extensive damage to the base. The fake appears to be based on real satellite imagery of a US naval base in Bahrain taken in February 2025, which is publicly available online. According to Google's SynthID watermark detector, the fake image was generated or edited with a Google AI tool. Three vehicles parked outside are also in the exact same spot in both the genuine satellite imagery and the AI picture - despite the photos allegedly having been taken a year apart. Google's AI tools, including its video generator Veo, are on the growing list of popular AI platforms, like OpenAI's Sora model, Chinese AI app Seedance, and Grok which is built into X. "The number of different tools that are now available to create a wide range of highly realistic AI manipulations is unprecedented," says Henry Ajder, a generative AI expert. "We have never seen these tools so available, so easy and so cheap to use," he says. This has led to a surge of AI-generated content online "because the pipeline onto social media can now be almost fully automated," says Victoire Rio, executive director of the technology policy non-profit What To Fix. X's head of product said on Tuesday that "99%" of the accounts spreading AI-generated videos like these were trying to "game monetization" by posting content that will generate large amounts of engagement in return for payment through the app's Creator Revenue Sharing programme. The platform does not publish how many accounts are part of the programme, or how much money they can make. But Graham estimates that X could pay about "eight to 12 dollars per million verified user impressions". "Creators have to hit five million organic impressions in three months, plus hold an X premium subscription, to be eligible," he added. "Once you're in, viral AI-generated content is basically a money printer," he says. "They've built the ultimate misinformation enterprise." X did not respond to our request for comment or our questions about the Creator Revenue Sharing programme. Experts have told BBC Verify that while many social media companies say they are trying to change their moderation and detection systems to address the scale and speed at which AI-generated content spreads, there is no simple solution to the problem. "The deeper issue is that engagement-driven monetisation and accurate information are fundamentally in tension, and no platform has fully resolved that tension or perhaps ever will," says Graham. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. On the tech giant's 50th year, we ask analysts to give their top three Apple successes and misses The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Oil prices have risen to their highest level in more than two years, after Qatar's energy minister warned he expects all oil and gas exporters in the Gulf to stop production within days. Saad al-Kaabi told the Financial Times the conflict in the Middle East - a region which plays a key role in global energy supplies and shipping routes - could "bring down the economies of the world". Brent crude oil rose more than 9% on Friday, topping $93 a barrel - the highest level since autumn 2023. Rising oil prices can have wide-reaching effects, not only on how much it costs to fill up your vehicle but also on the cost of some heating, food and imported goods. There are warnings that if the price of oil and gas - which has also surged this week - remain high, this could fuel inflation in major world economies such as the UK and US, where it has been on a broadly downward trend. Kaabi said oil could hit $150 a barrel if the Iran conflict continues over the coming weeks. He told the FT: "If this war continues for a few weeks, GDP growth around the world will be impacted. "Everybody's energy price is going to go higher. There will be shortages of some products and there will be a chain reaction of factories that can't supply." Already consumers in the UK are seeing higher petrol and diesel prices. On Friday the RAC said petrol at UK pumps had increased by 3.7p, and diesel by 6p - reaching a 16-month high - since Saturday. The Competition and Markets Authority, the UK's competition watchdog, says it is "closely monitoring" how petrol station prices develop. Household energy bills could also rise, although this probably won't be felt until July as regulator Ofgem's energy price cap has already been set until then. There have been fears the current crisis could have a similar impact to Russia's invasion of Ukraine, but so far rises in the prices of oil and gas remain below the peaks experienced in 2022. Asked about the energy minister's warnings, Jorge Leon, analyst at Rystad Energy, told the BBC the situation poses a "real risk to the global economy". "I think we're on the edge of trying to understand if this is a very short energy crisis with limited implications, or if we're at the beginning of a massive economic and energy crisis," he said. "If this lasts for more than two weeks, then the likelihood of seeing very significant implications for the energy system and the global macroeconomic outlook are much higher." Qatar is a major producer and exporter of oil and liquefied natural gas (LNG). This week QatarEnergy said it had stopped production of LNG following "military attacks" on its facilities. It declared "force majeure" - a clause freeing it from liability for failure to supply due to events outside its control - and Kaabi said he believed all other energy exporters would have to follow suit in the next few days if the war continues. Kaabi, who is also chief executive of QatarEnergy, said even if the war stopped now, it would take "weeks to months" to resume normal output. About a fifth of the world's oil supply is usually shipped through the Strait of Hormuz each day. But traffic through the narrow passage has all but halted since the US-Israel war with Iran began last weekend. Blocking the strait could make goods and services more expensive globally, and hit some of the world's biggest economies, including China, India and Japan, which are among the top importers of crude oil passing through the waterway. The UAE and Saudi Arabia both have pipelines enabling them to transport oil without using the strait. But analysts have warned that the longer there are threats to ships passing through the strait, the higher the price of oil - and the shipping of it - will be. Rystad Energy's Leon said if countries in the Gulf cannot export oil they will need to store it, and, when this storage runs out, stop production. They have between days and a few weeks of reaching that point, depending on how much storage they have. Oil prices exceeding $100 a barrel is a "realistic scenario", but the important thing is how long they stay at that level, he said. Governments across the world at that point would likely release their oil reserves, as happened after the full-scale invasion of Ukraine by Russia. Lindsay James, investment strategist at Quilter, said a prolonged halt to all oil and gas production in the Gulf was an "extreme scenario". Market moves suggest investors expect disruption to traffic through the Strait of Hormuz will be resolved quickly, she said, but added that the risk grows every day that the conflict will be more prolonged than first thought. "For households, the pressure will be felt primarily in energy prices, rather than a broad inflation shock," she said. "UK food inflation, for example, is unlikely to be significantly affected because much of the food imported into the UK does not rely on Gulf shipping routes. "The bigger economic risk comes from persistently higher energy costs, which can weigh heavily on growth." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US president who likes to keep the world guessing about his endgame in Iran is now telling the world what he wants. In a war widely described as his "war of choice", Donald Trump says he also wants to choose who will rule Iran now that its Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and dozens of others clerics and commanders, have been assassinated. That seems unthinkable for a clerical regime rooted in deep distrust of America - among its most ideological elements there is burning hostility towards the country they labelled long ago as the "great Satan". Whether Iran's embattled leadership would be mindful of choosing a top cleric willing to work in a different way with Washington is not clear. There has long been division between factions known as reformers and pragmatists, and the hardliners who call themselves Principlists in their defence of their revolution. But they are united on one goal: the survival of the system which keeps them in power. One week into this existential battle, the hardliners still seem to be holding sway. In his latest remarks, the US president then made it clear that he would only choose "a GREAT AND ACCEPTABLE leader" after Iran's "unconditional surrender". There is no sign of that either. Trump's latest musings seem to underline that his current goal is not regime change, but a change in the regime – although he is known to veer in his views from one day to the next. It is a stance which will let down Iranians who dared to hope that the end of the top cleric would pave the way for the end of his Islamic Republic. "I have to be involved in the appointment, like with Delcy (Rodriguez) in Venezuela," Trump told the Axios news website and Reuters in telephone interviews. He has repeatedly referenced the US's military action in Caracas on 3 January as the "perfect scenario" for Iran. His forces extracted its leader Nicolás Maduro, suffered no casualties and caused no chaos. Delcy Rodriguez, who took over the top job, is now working with the US administration. Iran's theocracy - with its multiple layers of political, religious, and security institutions, honed and hardened through decades of external threats and internal discontent - is not that kind of system. A foreign plot to put a preferred leader in charge more than 70 years ago is still seared in Iranian memory. In the 1953 coup, America's CIA intelligence agency and Britain's MI6 conspired with Iranians to overthrow the democratically elected Prime Minister Mohammad Mosaddegh. The man they put in place, Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, was later toppled in the 1979 revolution, an event shaped by suspicion of Washington, as well as London. Trump also seems to have made up his mind about who he does not want to be in charge. "Khamenei's son is unacceptable to me," he said of 56-year-old Mojtaba Khamenei, a hardliner now being widely tipped as the front-runner to succeed his father. The retort from Tehran was predictable. The president's comments reflected "the depth of the enemy's malicious objectives in this battle", according to the conservative Mehr News Agency, which carried a rebuke from members of the interim Leadership Council now in charge until a new leader is announced. "The great Iranian nation will never allow anyone to interfere in its internal affairs and its right to determine its own destiny," it declared in the fiery war of words now amplifying this grievous confrontation on the ground. Iran's own process of picking its own leader is secretive in the quietest of times. In the din of the deafening blasts of American and Israeli bombs, there are conflicting reports. Reports have swirled in the media that the younger Khamenei has already been anointed by the Assembly of Experts, a grouping of some 88 senior clerics tasked with this responsibility. The buildings in Tehran and Qom where they were meant to meet were bombed this week but they are reported to be meeting virtually. Mehdi Khalaji, a former fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said: "I'm not sure if it has already happened because yesterday there was news that the interim Leadership Council announced they had the authority over announcing war and peace, which means they are waiting for the succession to be finalised." Khalaji, the author of a biography of the late Ayatollah Khamenei, told the BBC about the late leader's second and most prominent son Mojtaba: "Khamenei is an enigmatic person but we know he represents the most hardline faction of the regime's security apparatus, the Islamic Revolutionary Guards." He added that Khamenei "also needs the acceptance of the clerical establishment" but says he does not have it. It was reported a few years ago that the supreme leader had ruled Mojtaba Khamenei out of the succession to avoid the hereditary rule of the ousted monarchy. There has also been a growing assumption that Ayatollah Ali Khamenei would be Iran's last truly supreme leader with the legitimacy and authority to be the ultimate decision-maker. It is the powerful Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC), created in 1979 to protect and preserve the Islamic Republic, which now dominates all its levers of power, from security to the economy. There are reports that the Assembly of Experts could chose a council of leaders rather than one person to preside in this perilous time. Other names are reported to be in the running, including Hassan Khomeini, the most prominent grandson of Iran's revolutionary leader, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Regarded as a relative moderate in the clerical establishment, he had taken on a more public role as tensions built in the run-up to war. There has also been mention of the senior jurist Alireza Arafi, who now holds one of the three positions on the interim Leadership Council - but his life spent mainly in Islamic seminaries is not being seen as the right CV for this job. It is not even clear that the successor will be announced, since Israel has made it clear that whoever emerges will also be an "unequivocal target". The only person speaking often and openly about this highly sensitive choice is Trump, who has remarked: "Most of the people we had in mind are dead." Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. The Uganda Law Society criticises the deportation, saying it was illegal and "dehumanising". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Some of the 43 Ugandan students evacuated from Iran have described their ordeal after being evacuated from the country. "We could hear the ground trembling, we could hear the ground shake," Oscar Nyegyema told AFP after arriving at Uganda's Entebbe International Airport. "We really did not know whether we could make it out." Masters student Aloysious Ssegawa told BBC Focus on Africa that the bombings felt like an ''earthquake'' and all he could think about doing was ''running for his life''. After the US and Israel jointly attacked Iran on Saturday, Iran retaliated with strikes on Israel and US allies in the Gulf, leading to disruption across the Middle East. Uganda's ambassador in Tehran arranged for the students to leave by bus to the Turkish border and then on to Istanbul where they caught a flight home. Ssegawa was based in the northern part of Tehran and travelled for four days before safely arriving back at Entebbe International Airport in Uganda. He described how there were extreme traffic jams and people were carrying their belongings as they fled Iran. ''There was a lot of panic, I must admit, everyone was scared.  When you are in the building and a bombing happens, it shakes and you feel like it is an earthquake.  And the only thing that comes to mind is running for your life,'' Ssegawa told the BBC. He added that it was ''psychologically traumatic, and I felt like I was really in danger''. This is the second time he has fled Iran. He first left last year during the 12-day war, but returned because he wanted to finish his studies. Despite these experiences, he says he will return again, if a peace deal is achieved. Nyegyema said his university had been hit by an air strike. "We were all scared, we were all feeling devastated." Nevertheless, he also intends to return to Iran and complete his programme as soon as he can. Some Ugandan students opted to remain in Iran, even after their government offered to bring them home. ''There were about 51 in one university, but the eight decided to remain behind willingly,'' Ugandan State Minister Balaam Barugahara told Reuters news agency. Jonan Gumushabe told Reuters that he was just a few days away from finishing his degree when he left Iran. Another evacuee, Sharon Twiine, who had been studying international relations at Ahlul Bayt International University in Tehran, said she would need therapy before continuing with her studies. "It was scary, traumatising and I wouldn't wish for anyone to experience" such a thing, she said. Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Cameroon's President Paul Biya, 93, won his eighth successive term last year in a disputed election. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Schools, a hospital and historic landmarks have been severely damaged since US and Israeli strikes on Iran began on Saturday, satellite images and verified videos show, as the number of reported civilian casualties grows. According to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) 1,168 civilians have been killed, including 194 children. Because of the almost total internet blackout imposed by the authorities, it has been very difficult to speak to people inside Iran, and video footage has been difficult to access. However, Tehran residents who have been able to connect to the internet say that Thursday night was the most intense night of bombings in the capital and the most frightening by far, with many staying awake all night due to the intensity of strikes. One described the night as "hell on earth", and another as "a scene from a dystopian film". BBC Verify has documented damage to a hospital, sporting centres, a Unesco world heritage site and two schools - one of which saw 168 people killed on Saturday morning, according to Iranian officials. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said the blast at the school in the southern city of Minab was under investigation and insisted US forces "never target civilian targets". Verified images also show damage to a separate school building in Urmia, northwestern Iran. Among the other buildings damaged since strikes began was the Gandhi Hospital in the Iranian capital Tehran on Sunday. Verified video of the hospital showed extensive damage to the building, with debris and glass falling as civilians watched on. A spokesperson for Iran's foreign ministry said such attacks were a "blatant war crime", while World Health Organisation chief Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that the incident was "extremely worrying", adding that "health facilities are protected under international humanitarian law." Footage taken in the immediate aftermath of the attack show the area littered with debris and patients - including a baby in an incubator - being moved out of the hospital. Mohammad Raeiszadeh, the head of Iran's Medical Council, told state media that the hospital's in-vitro (IVF) fertilisation department was destroyed by the strike. Footage taken in the aftermath and shared with the BBC by Iranian user Mamlekate showed a fire blazing in what appeared to be a stairwell, while thick black plumes of smoke billowed from the upper floors. Images taken inside the building show windows blown out and damage to interior walls. The IDF acknowledged there was "minor damage" to the hospital resulting from a strike on a nearby "military facility". The hospital is opposite studios and offices owned by the state-run Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB), which may have been the intended target of the strike. Satellite imagery captured on 3 March shows a collapsed transmission tower on the IRIB site, as well as impact marks from the strike. The front of the hospital, where video footage shows extensive damage, is not visible from the angle of the satellite image. Janina Dill, an expert on international law at Oxford University, told BBC Verify that the status of media outlets as military targets during conflict can be contested, depending on how far one aligns propaganda with military strategy. Describing the impact of the bombardment, one Tehran resident said that the constant "sound of ongoing blasts is fatiguing" and energy sapping. Another described how destabilising the barrage has been for vulnerable Iranians. "My uncle has a mental illness. The poor man had convinced himself he was dead," they told the BBC. Elsewhere, in the southern coastal city of Lamerd, 20 people were killed after a blast at a sports hall on Saturday, according to Iranian state media. Footage filmed shortly afterwards and shared with the BBC by Iranian social media user Mamlekate showed heavy damage to the building, with scorch marks visible on the walls and smoke slowly rising from the exterior. Other images show damage to buildings less than 300m away, suggesting more than one strike in the area. An Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) base is located in the town to the north of the hall, separated by a wall. No obvious damage has been observed to the base from the low-resolution satellite imagery we have available. Neither the IDF or US military have responded to our questions on this incident. A mass funeral procession in the centre of the city on 2 March was shown in footage from the Tasnim news agency. Hundreds were seen gathered, holding photos of the victims and the late Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamanei. The footage ends with a wide shot of mourners bowing their heads in front of a group of at least 18 coffins draped in the flag of the Islamic Republic of Iran. In Tehran, at least three sporting complexes have suffered major damage after strikes on Thursday. Among them is the 12,000-seat indoor stadium at the Azadi sports complex, which images show suffered near collapse. The Israeli foreign ministry has said the building was being used as a "resting place" for Iranian forces. Similar scenes of destruction were also evident at the Besat and Esmaeili stadiums, elsewhere in the city. We have approached the IDF for comment. Commercial businesses, including shops and other stores, have also been struck across the country. Verified videos showed severe damage to a cafe in the centre of Tehran and the shop's distraught owner inspecting the ruins. Damage to the cafe may have resulted from a strike on a police station directly across the road, which has been flattened. BBC Verify has also seen damage to an old bazaar in central Tehran's historic quarter as well as a palace listed as a Unesco world heritage site. Verified footage from Monday shows shattered glass and scorched walls at the Grand Bazaar, a sprawling labyrinth of shops and stalls which has stood for centuries. Images of the Golestan Palace, a former royal residence and one of the oldest buildings in the Iranian capital, reveal extensive damage. Footage broadcast by Iranian state media on Tuesday has shattered glass littering the palace, with damage also visible to parts of the exterior and solid wooden doors. The palace and the bazaar are both located near a complex housing Iran's judiciary and Supreme Court. BBC Verify has confirmed videos and analysed satellite imagery showing the judicial complex had been damaged. Unesco has said that the building suffered damage resulting from a strike on nearby Arg Square, where the judicial complex is located.  It added that it had provided locations to all parties of sites on the World Heritage List and noted that "cultural property is protected under international law". One Tehran local told the BBC that the city had been turned into a "ghost town" with empty streets and a lingering smell of gunpowder. Another reflected on the recent violent crackdowns on countrywide protests, saying "the fear of war is better than the fear we have of the Islamic Republic" Some 100,000 people fled Tehran in the first 48 hours of attacks, the UN's refugee agency said on Wednesday. It added that 1,000 to 2,000 vehicles were fleeing the city each day, mostly heading to the north of the country. Dr Michael Becker, assistant professor of law at Trinity College Dublin, told BBC Verify that deliberate strikes on civilian sites are illegal under international law, unless those sites are being used for military purposes. But he noted that there are limited exceptions to the rule, such as where a protected site is hit incidentally in the process of an attack on a military target. He said that the exceptions can lead to "very weak constraints on military decision-making", and emphasised that if the harm inflicted on civilians is not proportionate to the military aim being pursued the strikes can remain illegal. The full impact of the war on civilians remains unclear. An almost complete nationwide internet blackout remains in effect, according to the monitoring group Netblocks, meaning only limited information is emerging from Iran. Isik Mater, the group's director of research, said there was no guarantee that a more complete picture would emerge even if the regime loosens connectivity restrictions. "We've found that the anticipated huge rush of user generated content rarely emerges after Iran's shutdowns because people have either already found a way to transmit it when it mattered, or otherwise have ended up deleting it for safety or chosen to move on," she said. "That's why real-time verification has become so important." Additional reporting by Ghoncheh Habibiazad and Sarah Jalali. What claims do you want BBC Verify to investigate? The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A senior defence minister has visited the Royal Navy Air Station from where two helicopters are being sent to Cyprus due to the ongoing US-Israel war with Iran that has seen drones fired at a British base on the island. Defence Minister Luke Pollard visited RNAS Yeovilton in Somerset on Thursday, where he met the crews from the Royal Navy's 815 Naval Air Squadron and examined the type of anti-drone Wildcat helicopters they will be flying. The helicopters and crew are expected to arrive on the Mediterranean island on Friday. "They'll be joining a set of forces that have been pre-positioned ready for any Iranian attack," said Pollard. "We've already seen Typhoons and F35Bs take out Iranian drones threatening our bases and our allies and the Wildcat crews will be contributing to that effort," he added. The government has previously announced that it is deploying the Type 45 destroyer HMS Dragon to the area to assist with defensive operations after drones targeted RAF Akrotiri over the weekend. Pollard says the helicopters will be deployed to "take out Iranian drones that are not only targeting those UK bases but also our allies in the region". "We have a commitment to not only keep our country and our personnel safe, but also to back our allies in the region and that's what the crews that will be flying these helicopters will be doing, " he added. Four RAF fighter jets are also being deployed to Qatar to strengthen defences there. The Wildcat is a multi-role helicopter that will be equipped with 20 Martlet missiles that can be used against drones. "We normally operate in the maritime - so are able to shoot missiles at ships and uncrewed surface vessels - but we can also drop torpedoes against submarines, so there's plenty we can do," said Andrew Henderson, commanding officer of the Wildcat maritime force at RNAS Yeovilton. "As we are now showing, it [the Wildcat] also has versatility in countering unmanned aerial systems and we can use that any time, any place around the world," he added. The conflict began on 28 February and has involved numerous countries across the region. The UK has so far decided against joining the US and Israel in strikes against Iran but has allowed American forces to use British bases for certain types of operation. "Our deployment in the region is to support our defensive capabilities and protect our people, our bases and our allies," said Pollard. Follow BBC Somerset on Facebook and X. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
There is fear and confusion on the streets of Beirut as people displaced from their homes by sweeping Israeli evacuation orders wait to see what happens next. Communities across huge swathes of Lebanon - including the south of the country and the capital's southern suburbs - have been told by Israel to leave their homes because of military action against the Iran-backed armed group Hezbollah. The orders are unprecedented in their scale, with hundreds of thousands of people affected. Families unable to find spaces in shelters spent the night sleeping on the streets or in their cars, as the Israeli military carried out what it described as a "broad-scale wave" of strikes on the Dahieh suburb of Beirut, a Hezbollah stronghold. It said the strikes had hit "an executive council's command centre and a facility storing UAVs [unmanned aerial vehicles] utilised by Hezbollah for conducting attacks" against Israel. Displaced civilians on the streets of Beirut were concerned about whether their homes would be hit and when they would be able to return. "I got used to the sounds [of bombing] in the house. I didn't want to leave," Monira Hassan said through tears, as she sat with her daughter in a park in central Beirut having fled from the south of the city. "I don't know what to say anymore. I just wanted to stay at home." For residents like Monira, the current situation feels all too familiar. Many people had to evacuate during the previous war between Israel and Hezbollah, which saw Hezbollah's leadership assassinated, many of its fighters killed, and many of its weapons destroyed. That war ended after 13 months with a ceasefire in November 2024, though Israel continued to strike Lebanon almost every day since, saying Hezbollah was trying to rebuild its capabilities. Monira said she was particularly frightened after a statement by Israel's far-right finance minister Bezalel Smotrich, who said on Thursday that Dahieh would "look like Khan Younis", referring to a city in southern Gaza that has been decimated by the Israeli military in its war against Hamas. Nearby, a group of women sat in a circle with their young children. One, whose two-month-old baby was lying in a holdall bag in front of her, said she had grabbed nappies when she had fled but had forgotten milk. She said she worried about how they would keep the children warm at night. Others have been able to find shelter, with almost 96,000 people officially registered at displacement centres across the country. At the National Theatre in Beirut, a small number of mattresses are laid out on the balcony overlooking the stage. Mohamed Baydoun is staying there with his relatives after fleeing from his home in the southern city of Tyre. "They're not giving a specific target. These are entire areas they're telling to leave… There is no mercy. The enemy doesn't have mercy," the 73-year-old said of the sweeping Israeli evacuation orders. He added that he had lived through several wars, but that this one felt "different" - as though "only one side will be left standing". Baydoun noted that Israel had continued near-daily strikes on targets in southern Lebanon it said were linked to Hezbollah after the November 2024 ceasefire deal, and believed that even if the group hadn't fired rockets at Israel on Monday "this would have happened anyway". Elsewhere in the capital, 14-year-old Dunia Hassaballaa from Dahieh said this week had been "pretty scary to say the least". Her family left their home immediately after the Israeli evacuation orders covering southern Beirut on Thursday, joining the gridlocked traffic. Since getting to central Beirut, she said the family had "just been ordering food and trying to find somewhere to sit down and rest a bit". "We didn't sleep last night. We couldn't sleep because of fear. We were just watching the news to check on our home," she added. Volunteers working at shelters in Beirut have told the BBC they have already run out of space, and those supplying food to the displaced say they also worry about running out of supplies and donations dwindling. Staff at the Barzakh bookshop cafe prepared carrot soup on Friday to serve at schools sheltering the displaced for Iftar - the evening meal that breaks the Ramadan fast. "I'm 100% sure we're not going to be able to keep up," said operations manager Khodor Al-Akhdar. The cafe provided free meals during the last war with Israel, relying on public donations, and had hoped they would not need to do it again. "When the last war finished we thought it was going to be the end of this. But this week people started reaching out saying 'when are you going to start again?'" he said. "We don't have the energy. Mentally we're not good, physically we're not good from the last war." Lebanese Prime Minister Nawaf Salam warned on Friday that "a humanitarian disaster is looming" because of the mass displacement. "The humanitarian and political consequences… could be unprecedented," he told foreign ambassadors. French President Emmanuel Macron has also raised concerns about the escalating hostilities, describing it as a moment of "great danger". "Everything must be done to prevent this country, so close to France, from once again being drawn into war," he said in a statement shared on X. "Hezbollah must immediately cease its fire toward Israel. Israel must refrain from any ground intervention or large-scale operation on Lebanese territory," he said. On the streets of Beirut, the displaced continued to wait on Friday to see if the bombing would increase. "It's way too early for Lebanon to have another war," said 14-year-old Dunia. Additional reporting by Angie Mrad and Wyre Davies The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Residents of Tehran have told the BBC that Thursday night saw the heaviest wave of strikes on the capital since Israel and the US launched their attack on Iran six days ago. "The house was shaking for five minutes straight. Last night was the worst night," says a man in his 30s. He says he could barely sleep because of the "constant explosions." Another woman in her 40s said she "woke up to the sound of explosions at 05:00 and haven't been able to sleep ever since". The BBC is withholding the identities of those we speak to for their own safety. International news organisations are often refused visas to Iran, which severely limits their ability to gather information about what's going on inside the country. Internet blackouts make the situation even harder to report on. Another young man has described the fear he and his family have felt in recent days in Damavand, a city near Tehran where they have moved to temporarily. "I'd never seen an explosion up close before," he said. "I actually saw it with my own eyes from inside the house. I saw a light suddenly shoot up into the sky. All the windows in the house started shaking. My family was so frightened you wouldn't believe it. "They said we'd have to go with two cars, because one car wouldn't be enough to take our things." "I can see a lot of dissatisfaction with the war among ordinary people," he added. BBC News is unable to verify casualty counts from inside Iran, but US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (Hrana) has reported 1,168 civilians have been killed since the war began, including 194 children. "They were hitting so hard that all the windows were shaking," said another young woman in Tehran. "It sounded as if a dragon was making noises." But she said that she sensed support among some of her fellow citizens for the ongoing US-Israel attack. "Honestly, how can I put it - people are almost excited," she told BBC Persian. "People go up on to their rooftops. They sit there waiting for the strikes to happen. The eighth and ninth of January [when anti-government protests were violently suppressed] were much scarier for them than this past week. Back then, we ourselves were the targets of the bullets." "When fighter jets pass overhead, people wave goodbye to them and whistle," she said." "The city has become very quiet and empty, though, but people say: 'Just keep hitting until it's finished by Nowruz [Persian New Year, 20 March].' "They say they simply can't tolerate the Islamic Republic anymore." But some Iranians are worried about what might happen afterwards. "We mustn't end up like Iraq or Syria, honestly, we don't deserve that," a young man in Tehran said, referring to the civil wars which scarred those two countries this century. He said supporters of the regime were also cheering it on. "Every few crossroads there's a checkpoint. A few [pro-government] people gather and start chanting slogans, then a car with loudspeakers comes along blasting more slogans. "The city has turned into a ghost town, the smell of gunpowder, everything closed, darkness everywhere." "I hope things change - people live on hope," he added. "But if it doesn't happen this time, then it probably never will." Additional material by Omid Montazeri, BBC Persian. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Azerbaijan has said it is pulling its diplomatic staff out of Iran after it accused Iran of launching four drones across the border into the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan. The airport terminal was hit, a drone exploded near a school, injuring civilians, and another drone was shot down, as the war in the Middle East spilled over Iran's northern border. Azerbaijan's President Ilham Aliyev condemned the "act of terror", demanding an explanation and apology from Tehran. On Friday he went further, announcing the withdrawal of staff from Azerbaijan's embassy in Tehran and consulate in Tabriz "for their own safety", and state media said the military had been placed on maximum combat readiness. Aliyev also touched on Iran's ethnic Azerbaijani population on Thursday - a sensitive subject for Tehran. Iran denies any role in Thursday's strikes and has suggested the attack may have been an Israeli false‑flag operation. Azerbaijan, a small but strategically important Caspian country bordering Russia, Iran, Armenia and Georgia, is now being pulled closer to the heart of a much bigger confrontation. Nakhchivan is an isolated Azerbaijani territory bordering Iran, Turkey and Armenia, making it particularly exposed during times of conflict. The drones triggered Aliyev's strongest public attack on Tehran since he took office. He said the Iranian forces behind the strike were "ugly, cowardly and disgusting" - an unusually blunt personal insult for a head of state. But his anger went beyond words, saying that "independent Azerbaijan is a place of hope for Azerbaijanis living in Iran". Baku has long avoided this line because of how sensitive it is for Tehran. Iran is home to an estimated 20-25 million ethnic Azeris, who make up its largest minority group and are concentrated in the north-west along the Azerbaijan border. The Islamic Republic has consistently regarded their identity and political affiliations as issues of utmost sensitivity. Tehran views any notion of Azerbaijani identity extending beyond its borders as a potential challenge to internal unity. Aliyev has rarely spoken about Iranian Azeris in such explicitly aspirational terms and doing so now appears to be a calculated move. Iran is under intense pressure not just from the war but from internal unrest and political uncertainty and Aliyev's message comes across as a warning to Tehran: any  attempt to pressure Azerbaijan militarily or diplomatically could result in a response from Baku, including one that affects Iran's internal stability. Iranian Azerbaijanis have long complained that they are denied basic cultural rights, including education in their own language. Several Azerbaijani activists, journalists and language campaigners are currently imprisoned in Iran, facing charges ranging from "propaganda against the regime" to "conspiracy against national security". They are also a politically significant community. This week the exiled crown prince, Reza Pahlavi, has been urging Iranian Azerbaijanis, among other ethnic minorities, to rise up against the regime. Iran's current President, Masoud Pezeshkian, is himself an ethnic Azerbaijani and the late Ayatollah Ali Khamenei - who was killed in the opening salvo of US-Israeli strikes on Saturday - was also claimed to have Azerbaijani roots. Some of Iran's shahs across the centuries were ethnic Azerbaijanis as well. One of its most influential rulers, Shah Ismail Khatai, even used Azerbaijani as the first language of his palace in the 16th Century - a reminder of how deeply Azerbaijani culture once shaped the Iranian state. But none of these facts have helped Azerbaijanis in Iran to have lessons taught in their own language. Despite their shared Shia Muslim identity, Iran and Azerbaijan have grown apart politically, and tensions worsened after Azerbaijan's military victories in the 2020 and 2023 Karabakh wars, which were helped by Turkish and Israeli-made weapons. Iran views Baku's close defence partnership with Israel as a serious threat. Iranian officials and media have repeatedly accused Azerbaijan of helping Israeli intelligence operate along Iran's northern frontier - claims Azerbaijan denies. Azerbaijan's ties with Israel extend beyond security. Israel relies heavily on Azerbaijani oil, and the two countries maintain close political and intelligence co-operation. For Tehran, this collaboration is at the centre of its suspicion. Azerbaijan, for its part, has long resented Iran's political and military support for neighbouring Armenia, seeing it as direct interference in a conflict central to its own security. That history of mistrust is an important backdrop to Thursday's escalation, shaping how Baku interprets every move coming from Tehran. Iran opposes the establishment of a land connection between Azerbaijan and its Nakhchivan exclave. Tehran has consistently objected to Armenia potentially allowing Azerbaijan a land corridor to the territory. Azerbaijan is a major energy supplier, and its crude oil reaches global markets through a 1,768km (1,100-mile) pipeline that goes via Baku on the Caspian Sea through Georgia to Turkey's Mediterranean coast. That pipeline carries more than a million barrels of oil a day and provides Europe with a vital supply route that bypasses both Russian and Iranian territory. It also supplies Israel with a significant proportion of its oil. As a result, the pipeline is viewed as a significant potential target for Iran, and any threat of disruption could raise security fears and jolt energy markets. Both Iran and Azerbaijan deny seeking escalation. Aliyev insists Azerbaijan "will not participate" in military operations against Iran, and Tehran continues to reject responsibility for the drone attack. But Aliyev's decision to talk openly of Azerbaijan being a "place of hope" for Iranian Azeris introduces a new and potentially unpredictable element. Aliyev has pointed out to Tehran that he was the sole foreign leader to visit any Iranian embassy to express condolences following the killing of Khamenei, and that he personally responded to a request to help evacuate Iranian embassy staff from Lebanon. Now, he says, Iran has repaid those gestures with drone strikes on Azerbaijani territory, something he views as a deep betrayal. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"There's frustration because decades of repression have led to this unnecessary suffering, but there's also hope because many Iranians believe this moment could mark the beginning of genuine change." Habib Farbahi, a Somerset councillor who lives in Taunton, left Iran in 1976, but many of his relatives still live there. The current conflict has created an "element of fear along with hope," he added. Iran has faced unrest in recent months over concerns about its economy and its former supreme leader. It resulted in internet blackouts and the arrests and killings of thousands of protesters. The United States and Israel launched air strikes on the country on Saturday after president Donald Trump threatened military intervention over allegations Iran is continuing to develop nuclear weapons. Iranian state TV confirmed that the country's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, was killed in air strikes on Saturday. The 86-year-old had ruled the country for the past three decades, serving as the head of state and commander-in-chief of the armed forces, including the elite Revolutionary Guards. His death prompted mixed reactions in Iran, with some celebrating in the streets and others mourning. Reports suggest at least 1,100 people have been killed since the conflict began on Saturday, including more than 150 children after their primary school was bombed, Iranian officials have said. Farbahi said he had fond memories of growing up in Iran, and that the nation should not be defined by today's politics. He told BBC Radio Somerset that he and many other Iranians had mixed feelings about Khamenei's death and the ongoing conflict in the country. "There's fear because escalation risks lives - including our own British servicemen along with Americans - as well as the Iranian and the Gulf states. Innocent civilians are being lost," he said. "There's frustration because decades of repression have led to this unnecessary suffering, but there's also hope because many Iranians believe this moment could mark the beginning of genuine change. "Parents in Iran and across the rest of the Middle East want safety and opportunities for their children, just as families in Somerset do." Hamid Anzabi said he made the "difficult decision" to leave Iran with his wife and two-month-old son in 2013 due to the impact of the Islamic Republic. Anzabi, who now lives in Bristol, said he still felt a "deep emotional connection" to his home country and agreed that watching the conflict unfold was difficult. "Many Iranians inside and outside the country feel a mixture of concern, sadness and frustration when they see continued political tensions, protests and instability," he added. He said he hoped Iran could elect a political system that "reflected the will of the people" and provided "stability, freedom and economic opportunity". Hani, who lives in Swindon, Wiltshire, said she was "worried all the time" about her parents and brother who stayed in Iran after she fled the country about six years ago. She said she knew tensions would continue to rise and lead to conflict in the country, but added that she felt "very happy" that the population might be free from the current regime. "We don't know what has been happening," Hani told BBC Radio Wiltshire. "It is war, but we know that it's an opportunity for people after the regime falls to take our destination and our future in our hands," she added. Pasha Pashapour Alamdari came to Cheltenham in Gloucestershire to study nearly 25 years ago. He described the current situation as a "rescue mission", rather than a war. "We together have been campaigning and protesting to achieve this. There's only one way to get rid of the regime. "This is our final chance to get our country back. We want this, we were pushing for this... there's no other way to get our country back," he added. "It's really difficult, it breaks my heart but this is the only way. "We've been suffering for 47 years and finally there's a small light at the end of the tunnel." Alamdari said he hoped the people in his home country could chose their own future through a democratic vote and everybody there could "live in harmony" regardless of their background, religion or political views. Follow BBC Somerset on Facebook and X. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. Zac Summers-Cameron died in 2025, aged 22, after his testicular cancer was originally misdiagnosed. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. Nitesh Nitesh, of Byron Street in Redfield, will appear at Bristol Magistrates' Court on Monday. A charity says the building is in a "dangerous condition" and "beyond rescuing". Bristol have to regroup after Champions Cup exit and Prem losses says director of rugby Pat Lam, as injury concerns also mount. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Four people have been arrested as part of a counter-terrorism investigation relating to Iran, the Metropolitan Police has said. Police arrested one Iranian and three dual British-Iranian nationals on suspicion of assisting a foreign intelligence service. The investigation relates to the suspected surveillance of locations and individuals linked to Jewish communities in London, the Met said. Commander Helen Flanagan, head of Counter Terrorism Policing London, said the arrests were part of "a long-running investigation and part of our ongoing work to disrupt malign activity where we suspect it". She added: "We understand the public may be concerned, in particular the Jewish community, and as always, I would ask them to remain vigilant and if they see or hear anything that concerns them, then to contact us." In a statement, Home Secretary Shabana Mahmood sought to reassure the public that the UK's police and security services "are world leading" and would not hesitate to "take action to counter any threat to the UK". "They will continue to use the full range of tools and powers available to them to keep this country safe. They have the government's full support as they carry out their vital work." Speaking to ITV's Good Morning Britain shortly after news broke of the arrests, Deputy Prime Minister David Lammy said: "Iran is the biggest state sponsor of terrorism globally and sadly, that is in effect in our own society as well. "Our intelligence services and counter-terrorism police have thwarted lots of action over the last few years," he added. He also praised the work of the security services and police. The Community Security Trust, a charity which seeks to protect Britain's Jewish community and monitors reports of antisemitism, thanked police in a statement and added: "Security is strong across the Jewish community." A 40-year-old and a 55-year-old were arrested at addresses in Barnet, a 52-year-old in Watford and a 22-year-old in Harrow. Searches remain ongoing in Watford, Barnet, and an address in Wembley. The four men were detained under the National Security Act, which was introduced in 2023 to modernise counter spying laws, combating foreign interference. After Iran launched retaliatory strikes following the US-Israel attack at the weekend, Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer condemned Iran's actions against "partners across the region". "Even in the United Kingdom, the Iranian regime poses a direct threat to dissidents and to the Jewish community," Sir Keir added. "Over the last year alone, they have backed more than 20 potentially lethal attacks on UK soil." Six other men aged 29, 39, 42, 49 and two aged 20, were arrested at the same location in Harrow on suspicion of assisting an offender. All 10 men have been taken into custody. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The new timetable begins on 17 May with some trains re-introduced and new services operating. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The borough with the highest population in London, Croydon's borough council is up for election on 7 May. The musical, on the global threat of antibiotic resistance, features a chorus of 60 NHS workers. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Energy firms in the Channel Islands say they are keeping the price of fuel under "constant scrutiny" after it rose amid the Middle East conflict. Iran warned vessels not to use the Strait of Hormuz, a crucial waterway through which 20% of the world's oil and gas is transported after the US and Israel launched airstrikes on the country. A spokesperson from Islands Energy Group said the spot commodity price for gas had been "very volatile and has risen significantly" since the start of the conflict. The company is keeping the situation under review and said it will "reluctantly" have to look at its pricing structure if "the recent dramatic rise in gas prices is maintained for any length of time". The price of gas in the UK soared to its highest level for three years on Tuesday. Guernsey Electricity said most of the island's electricity supply is imported  through a subsea cable to mainland Europe via the Channel Islands Electricity Grid. A spokesperson said the company aimed to buy energy "at a favourable and stable" price using forward price hedging arrangements. "This helps to mitigate against price volatility in wholesale energy markets and to ultimately smooth out the immediate impact on electricity tariffs locally." They said this "sheltered" Guernsey from the "huge increases" in UK electricity tariffs in 2022 after the Russian invasion of Ukraine. In a statement on social media in response to questions about rising costs, ATF Fuels said: "The honest answer is - we don't know yet." "We are managing the situation to support customers as best we can." It said its priority remained "transparency, fairness, and keeping our community supplied during this difficult time". Nick Crolla from Rubis Channel Islands said global fuel prices fluctuated daily as part of normal market conditions. He said: "We actively manage this volatility to help provide pricing stability for our customers and maintain strong, reliable supply chains." He said there currently was "no supply concerns" but his team would continue to work to "minimise any impact on our customers". "While some price movement is expected in line with global trends, current prices remain among the lower levels seen over the past four years." Follow BBC Guernsey on X and Facebook. Follow BBC Jersey on X and Facebook. Send your story ideas to channel.islands@bbc.co.uk. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. A former US marine tells the BBC the priority of any recovery team would be to look for signs of life. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A refugee who fled Iran in 1989 has praised the killing of its supreme leader, but fears the impact of continued war on her "beloved country". Nashmin Riazi, who now lives in Worcester, said: "The country will be destroyed, innocent people killed and Iran will become a very defenceless country in the future." The 61-year-old hoped to return to visit her family and country but said it needed to be free of the regime. "The regime is not a very easy regime, but we can't just overthrow them," she explained. The US and Israel struck Iran on Saturday, killing Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, with Iran launching retaliatory attacks since then. Riazi commended the continued bravery of Iranians protesting for freedom, despite the high number of deaths and causalities. "The women that are scared of the regime but protest are very brave, we don't have  economical, political or social freedom." She has not managed to contact her family in Tehran herself, but a friend from Sweden found out they were safe. When she fled the country she went to Germany as a refugee, in order to carry on her education. "It was dangerous [for me], I was arrested two times, even though I didn't do something special but because my views and thoughts were different, they couldn't accept me to continue living," she said. "Because I didn't have any freedom as a woman, I preferred to move to another country." Follow BBC Hereford & Worcester on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. A number of lane closures and full carriageway closures are planned for the M5 near Worcester. All three suspects are in police custody after a woman was stabbed on Monday in Worcester. Chris Garratt is taking on the 2026 London Marathon in full graduation attire. Worcester Patriots shared a letter on flag-raising saying it was from Worcestershire County Council. The peregrine falcons at Pershore Abbey are using the building's new "Peregrine Palace" to nest on. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Sri Lanka has taken control of an Iranian naval vessel off its coast, a day after the US sank an Iranian warship in the same waters, in an attack that killed at least 87 people. The vessel, the Irins Bushehr, had requested on Wednesday to dock at one of Sri Lanka's ports as one of its engines had malfunctioned. Some 208 members of the vessel have been evacuated. Sri Lanka allowed it to dock at a north-eastern port after hours of discussion, with its president saying they would "never hesitate to protect humanity". The South Asian country has stressed its neutrality, saying it would take no sides as it finds itself caught in the middle of the US-Israeli military campaign against Iran. "Our position has been to safeguard our neutrality while demonstrating our humanitarian values," President Anura Kumara Dissanayake said in a statement. "[Sri Lanka] intervened in a way that demonstrated our commitment to international conventions, protecting the reputation and dignity of our country, and protecting human lives," he said on Thursday. His statements come after an American submarine on Wednesday torpedoed the Iris Dena about 44 nautical miles (81km) off Sri Lanka's southern coast. The frigate, which was carrying about 180 crew, was part of a multinational naval exercise in the Bay of Bengal. Sri Lanka lies in the Indian Ocean, southeast of India and southwest of the Bay of Bengal. The sinking of the Iris Dena marked an escalation in the widening Middle East conflict. Iran's foreign minister Abbas Araghchi called it an "atrocity at sea" and said the US would "bitterly regret" the attack. US defence secretary Pete Hegseth touted it as an example of America's military prowess, claiming it was "the first sinking of an enemy ship by a torpedo since World War Two". While it is the first time since 1945 that an American submarine has sunk an enemy ship this way, the UK and Pakistan have both sunk vessels using torpedoes since then. The Iris Dena was one of about 20 Iranian navy vessels destroyed since Israel and the US launched co-ordinated strikes on Iran over the weekend. And on Thursday, the Iris Bushehr requested permission from Sri Lanka to come into port, citing engine issues. Dissanayake eventually allowed it to dock at the port of Trincomalee, though the vessel was near the country's main commercial port in Colombo. He added that there was a risk of the country's maritime industry being "adversely affected", should the ship have docked in Colombo. The crew members of the Irins Bushehr, including 53 officers, 84 cadet officers, 48 senior sailors and 23 sailors, will be brought to Colombo. As of Thursday, Sri Lanka's navy is also still searching through its waters for crew members of the Iris Dena who are still missing. The 32 survivors from the Iris Dena are now being treated at a hospital in Galle for serious injuries. Sri Lanka has maintained a long-standing policy of non-alignment since it became independent in 1948. It has strong economic and diplomatic ties with both Iran and the US. Sri Lanka had bought $250 million worth of crude oil from Iran and is paying back through monthly exports of tea. The US, on the other hand, is the primary destination for Sri Lankan garment and apparel. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A flight chartered by the government to bring back some Britons stranded in the Middle East has arrived in the UK. The flight, originally scheduled to leave Oman's capital Muscat on Wednesday, had its departure delayed following some technical issues. It eventually took off nearly 24 hours late on Thursday night local time, before landing at Stansted Airport at 00:53 GMT on Friday. Thousands of British nationals remain stuck in the Middle East, after US-Israeli strikes on Iran prompted retaliatory strikes by Iran across the region. More than 140,000 Britons in the region have registered for updates from the UK government. Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer has said more than 4,000 people have arrived back in the UK on commercial flights from the UAE, including "vulnerable Brits". A further seven flights were due to leave the UAE for the UK on Thursday, he said, adding that the government will lay on additional charter flights in the coming days. He said British Airways is putting on daily flights from Oman, and the government will keep working with partners to "increase the speed and capacity of this airlift". Foreign Office minister Hamish Falconer described the situation as "a consular challenge on a scale not seen since Covid" and said there were "no instant solutions". Britons in Oman will be contacted as soon as the additional government-organised flights from Muscat become available, Falconer said. However, he said commercial flights becoming available were "by far the most likely and the most rapid routes back to the UK". In response, Shadow Foreign Secretary Priti Patel criticised the government's position on the conflict, calling Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper "weak and feeble". Patel said the US, Cyprus, the UAE and Bahrain felt let down by the UK's lack of involvement. Cooper had "failed in her duty to stand up for Britain's place in the world" and had not provided the leadership needed to protect military personnel, British bases and British nationals, she added. On Thursday evening, a plane sent by France to Dubai to repatriate its citizens reportedly had to turn back because of missile fire. French Transport Minister Philippe Tabarot said the turning round of the French plane underscored the instability in the region and the complexity of safely carrying out repatriation operations. Those eligible for government flights are being asked to pay for seats. When announcing the initial flight, the Foreign Office said it would prioritise the most vulnerable people, and that only British nationals, their spouse or partner, and children under 18 would be offered a seat. Foreign Office officials said 141,000 British nationals in the Gulf had registered their presence, of whom 112,000 were in the United Arab Emirates. Following the missile strikes across the Middle East, airspace remains severely restricted, with flights completely or partially grounded over Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, Syria, the UAE and Israel. A passenger on the flight, named Mark, messaged the BBC as it was about to take off. He's travelling with his young family to London Stansted. He described the "complete shambles" of Wednesday's delayed flight - check-in took two hours, and they were stuck on a bus to the plane for another hour with "no communication from the craft or the crew". Mark said someone had a panic attack on the bus, and once the doors finally opened, they were told the crew were working out of hours, meaning the flight would not legally be able to reach Cairo. Britons unable to secure a seat on the charter flight have been looking for alternative ways home. Sam Sahabandu, 47, from Northamptonshire, who got stuck in Muscat after his flight back to London from Sri Lanka was diverted, was due to be on a Qatar Airways flight to Heathrow on Thursday afternoon local time. Sahabandu said Muscat Airport appeared "relatively peaceful" despite the disruption, and some other passengers were being routed through other cities such as Rome to get back to the UK. Poppy Cleary, 27, was one of those stranded in Muscat after her flight from Singapore was diverted to Oman on Saturday. She told BBC Your Voice that she registered and paid for a charter flight, but never heard back. She said the British Embassy in Oman told her the first flight was not for people who had been diverted to Muscat, but instead for people who had come to Oman from "unsafe countries" including the UAE, Kuwait, Bahrain and Qatar. Cleary said she was "relieved" to eventually secure a place on the Qatar Airways flight leaving Oman on Thursday, telling the BBC after boarding that it did not appear to be full, with a "fair amount of empty seats". One woman selected for a space on the government charter flight said she had to decline her spot as her parents - who have indefinite leave to remain in the UK, but are Sri Lankan passport holders - were not eligible. Erasha Amarasinghe, a 39-year-old doctor from Northampton, told BBC Your Voice: "I am travelling with my disabled mother and my father who has cognitive impairment […] I feel stuck as I cannot leave my parents behind." There were emotional scenes at Edinburgh Airport on Wednesday night as some 300 passengers landed on an Emirates flight from Dubai. Andrew Crow and Jean Weir, from Glasgow, had checked out of the Fairmont The Palm hotel in Dubai just hours before it was caught in a large explosion on Saturday. "The flight was a long one on the way back, I can assure you, but we are relieved to be home," Andrew said. Victoria Cameron, from Larkhall, had been travelling home from New Zealand via Dubai when flights in the Middle East were grounded. "The staff said 'run, run, leave your suitcases'," she told the BBC. "Our phones were going off, saying 'emergency alert'. We were crying, we were shaking." Meanwhile, the UK government continues to set out its wider response to the crisis in the Middle East, including deploying a warship to the area close to Cyprus. The Royal Navy destroyer HMS Dragon will be sent to the Mediterranean, possibly next week, to bolster defences around a British military base at Akrotiri after it was hit by an Iranian drone. A number of flights departed Muscat, Oman on Thursday, including a British Airways flight to London. The airline said it is operating two more already fully-booked flights from Oman to Heathrow on Friday and Saturday. It added: "We remain unable to operate flights from Abu Dhabi, Amman, Bahrain, Doha, Dubai and Tel Aviv." In an update on X, Qatar Airways said it would be operating a "limited number" of relief flights from Thursday for passengers across the region. Additional reporting by James Kelly, Rozina Sini, Alex Akhurst, Andree Massiah, Megan Bonar Are you in Oman? Will you be on this flight? Get in touch via this link or use the form below. Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. Sir Keir Starmer says it is "deeply concerning" the rapper is set to headline a festival after recent antisemitic comments. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The White House has praised the US House of Representatives for rebuffing a bid to halt President Donald Trump's military action in Iran, a day after a similar measure collapsed in the Senate. The House war powers resolution - rejected in a narrow vote of 219-212 - was largely symbolic and would have been unlikely to survive an expected veto from the president. Democrats have criticised Trump for launching strikes without congressional approval and questioned whether the US was facing the kind of "imminent" threat that would justify the president ordering strikes on his own. The US and Israel launched the military action last Saturday and it is unclear how long the conflict could last. In a statement after Thursday's House vote, the White House said: "Congress has reaffirmed the Commander-in-Chief's Constitutional authority to protect the American people from the Iranian regime's murderous ambitions and imminent threats." Four Democrats - Jared Golden of Maine, Greg Landsman of Ohio, Henry Cuellar of Texas and Juan Vargas of California - defied their party to help Republicans defeat the war powers resolution. Two Republicans - Thomas Massie of Kentucky and Warren Davidson of Ohio - crossed the aisle to join Democrats in support of the legislation. Davidson, an Army veteran, said in a statement: "President Trump's America First message was supposed to be a rejection of the globalist war machine." If the resolution had cleared Congress it would have stopped US military action in Iran pending deliberation from lawmakers on whether to grant approval. House Speaker Mike Johnson, who pushed for Congress to vote against the act, praised the outcome, saying that to pass it would have been "a very serious misstep by Congress". "We are not at war," he argued. "We have no intention of being at war. This is a limited operation." Democrats in both chambers of Congress have argued that Trump ignored congressional input and has offered vague reasons and objectives for the war, which the White House denies. Some Republicans in the House and Senate said that while they blocked the resolution for now, they could change course if the war expands or drags on. On Thursday at the White House, Trump said the US was striking Iranian drone and missile capabilities "every single hour". "So they have no air force, they have no air defence," he said. "All of their airplanes are gone, their communications are gone." Trump said Iran was "calling and saying how do we make a deal". "I say you're being a little bit late," the president said. "We want to fight now more than they do." While the president has broad authority to launch military action without a formal declaration of war, Congress must by law be notified within 48 hours of hostilities beginning. Secretary of State Marco Rubio has maintained the Trump administration complied with that requirement. Speaker Johnson has said the Trump administration notified the so-called gang of eight - a bipartisan group of the top eight congressional leaders - before the strikes. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
As the US and Israel wage war with Iran, India is beginning to feel the tremors at home. Nearly half of India's crude oil imports - along with a large share of its liquefied natural gas (LNG) and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) shipments - normally pass through the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow Gulf chokepoint now effectively closed by the conflict. India's ties to the region run deeper than energy. About 10 million Indians live and work across the Gulf, sending home record remittances that support millions of families and help finance a large slice of India's external accounts. More broadly, India's economic links with the Middle East run deep: the region accounts for 17% of India's exports, supplies 55% of its crude oil and generates 38% of its remittances, according to Jefferies, a brokerage firm. A widening war in the Gulf could therefore hit India on several fronts: energy supplies, remittance flows from the diaspora and Delhi's delicate diplomatic balancing act between Washington, Tehran and the Arab Gulf states. India is "waiting and watching" amid mounting uncertainty, says Harsh V Pant of the think tank Observer Research Foundation. Iran's targeting of Arab Gulf states has sharpened Delhi's concerns. India's equities in the Arab world - diaspora, remittances, energy, trade and institutional ties - are far deeper, Pant notes. That explains why India has been more vocal about the "damage and destruction" there. If the crisis drags on, Pant warns, it could prove "more damaging in terms of the long-term engagement of India with the region". For all the rhetoric around India-Iran ties, Pant argues, they have long been constrained - most notably by Iran's marginalisation in the global economy. That reality has pushed India to deepen partnerships with key Gulf states, which means instability there will be viewed in Delhi with far greater urgency. But India could stand to lose diplomatically as well, according to KC Singh, a former Indian ambassador to Iran. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi's unwillingness to criticise Israel during his recent visit, days before the attacks, has robbed India of its neutrality. Iran is unlikely to forget it," Singh wrote in The Tribune. The fallout for India could show up in four places: energy, remittances, its Gulf diaspora and a strategic port in Iran. Is India heading for fuel shortages? Not yet. But the war around the Strait of Hormuz has exposed how tightly the country's energy security is tied to a narrow stretch of water. Roughly a fifth of the world's oil and gas normally passes through Hormuz. In recent days, attacks on vessels and warnings from Iran that ships attempting to transit the strait could be targeted have effectively halted traffic through one of the world's most important energy arteries. For India, which imports 90% of its oil, the exposure is substantial. Around half of its crude oil imports - about 2.5 to 2.7 million barrels a day - travel through the strait, largely from Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait. Every $10 a barrel rise in oil prices could push up inflation by about 0.2-0.25 percentage points if passed on to consumers, according to Jefferies. If the government cuts fuel taxes to soften the blow, the fiscal deficit - the gap between a government's total spending and its revenues - would take a similar hit instead. Yet, crude oil may not be the most immediate concern. "The risks around Hormuz are worrisome," says Sumit Ritolia, an analyst at maritime intelligence firm Kpler. "I'm not that worried about crude oil, but about LPG and LNG." This reflects a structural shift in India's energy use. Government programmes have rapidly expanded LPG for cooking, displacing traditional biomass fuels and sharply lifting demand. Today India imports 80-85% of the LPG it consumes, making it the world's second-largest LPG importer after China. Almost all those shipments come from Gulf producers - mainly Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Kuwait - and nearly all pass through Hormuz. India's domestic gas output covers only a fraction of demand in an economy that increasingly relies on gas for electricity generation, fertilisers, city distribution, transport and industry. India imported about 25 million tonnes of LNG last year, roughly 14 million tonnes of it via Hormuz, placing it among the world's largest LNG buyers alongside China, Japan and South Korea. What makes LPG particularly vulnerable is the lack of buffers. Unlike crude oil, India holds no meaningful strategic LPG reserves and storage capacity is limited. Stocks held by refiners and distributors could cover only two-to-three weeks of demand if imports stall. Crude oil, by contrast, is more manageable. India holds roughly 100 million barrels in refinery and commercial inventories, about 80% of which is usable - enough to provide around "30 to 35 days" of cover, according to Ritola. As a major exporter of refined fuels such as diesel and jet fuel, the country could also curb product exports to preserve supplies if necessary. Alternative sources exist. India could step up purchases from Russia or from the Atlantic Basin - the US, western Africa and Latin America. But those barrels take 25-45 days to arrive, compared with five-to-seven days from the Gulf, lengthening supply chains and raising freight costs, according to Kpler. If push comes to shove, India can pivot back to Russian crude, experts say. "Around 25-30 million Russian oil barrels are currently floating on ships in the Indian Ocean and, with only India and China as major buyers, those barrels remain a ready fallback," says Ritola. For now, markets expect the first shock to be financial rather than physical. Brent crude prices, shipping rates and war-risk insurance premiums are likely to climb, pushing up India's import bill even if actual supply remains intact in the near term. Kpler does not expect a prolonged, full closure of Hormuz. "More likely are temporary slowdowns, rerouting of vessels or heightened maritime security checks," the firm said in a note. Analysts at Jefferies expect oil and LNG prices to "jump sharply" in the short term, but believe any blockade will be temporary. If the crisis drags on, however, the pressure points will become clearer. Oil may remain available. But LPG cylinders in kitchens and LNG supplies to power plants could tighten far more quickly if the world's most critical energy chokepoint stays shut. India's diaspora has grown both quietly and dramatically. From about 6.6 million in 1990, the number of Indians living abroad has swelled to roughly 18.5 million today - the world's largest overseas population. Some 10 million Indians live and work across the six states of the Gulf Co-operation Council - Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Oman and Bahrain. That is roughly half of India's global migrant stock. What began decades ago as a wave of temporary labour migration has evolved into something more settled. In 2025, the UAE alone enrolled over 247,000 Indian school students, with sizeable numbers also in Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Kuwait - evidence that many families are putting down roots rather than rotating in and out as short-term workers. For the Indian government, the safety of this community has become a strategic concern. "There are almost 10 million Indian citizens who live and work in the Gulf region. Their safety and well-being is of utmost priority," officials said this week as tensions in the region mounted. The economic stakes are substantial. India received a record $135bn in remittances in 2024- 2025, keeping its position as the world's largest recipient. These flows finance nearly half of India's merchandise trade deficit, quietly underpinning the country's external accounts. Workers in the Gulf generate a large share of those inflows. They dominate sectors such as construction, services, energy and increasingly skilled professions, sending billions of dollars back to households across India. The southern state of Kerala alone receives around a fifth of India's total remittances, underscoring how deeply parts of the country depend on Gulf migration. A prolonged crisis in the region could force evacuations, disrupt schooling and employment for expatriates and slow the flow of money home. For Delhi, the Gulf is not just about oil imports; it is about livelihoods, household incomes and the stability of India's external finances. "The idea of the Gulf as a safe haven has been shaken," says S Irudaya Rajan of the International Institute for Migration and Development, based in the southern city of Thiruvananthapuram. "That has social as well as economic consequences. Parents worrying about children abroad and migrants contemplating returning home." India's decade-long bet on Iran's Chabahar port - a strategic gateway to Afghanistan and Central Asia that bypasses Pakistan - has collided with Washington's sanctions regime. Since signing a development deal in 2016, Delhi has viewed the port as a cornerstone of its regional connectivity strategy and a rare overland corridor into landlocked Afghanistan and beyond. In recent years, India has used the port to ship wheat and humanitarian supplies to Afghanistan while investing in the development of the port's Shahid Beheshti terminal. But that strategy became precarious after the US revoked a longstanding sanctions waiver in September 2025 as part of renewed pressure on Iran. In a diplomatic reprieve, Washington later granted India a conditional six-month waiver, allowing operations at the terminal to continue until 26 April 2026 while negotiations continue. The arrangement provides breathing space - but little certainty. The war has complicated matters. Only once tensions around Iran ease will India be able to revisit Chabahar with confidence. As long as the Washington-Tehran confrontation persists, Delhi's engagement with the port is likely to remain limited by practical and operational constraints, according to Pant. India will continue to call for dialogue and de-escalation. But in practice, says Pant, Delhi is "much more worried about what is happening in the Arab world than anything else right now". To be sure India's dependence on Middle East runs far beyond oil and remittances. In 2025 it imported nearly $100bn of goods from the region - from fertilisers and petrochemicals to industrial minerals - leaving sectors from farming and plastics to construction and diamond cutting exposed to supply shocks. "If disruptions to shipping through the Strait of Hormuz continue beyond a week, the effects could quickly spread from energy markets to fertiliser supplies, manufacturing inputs, construction materials and export industries such as diamonds," says Ajay Srivastava, a former Indian trade official and head of the think tank Global Trade Research Initiative (GTRI). "What begins as a regional conflict could rapidly evolve into a broader supply shock for the Indian economy." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
For a sixth day, the US and Israel are battering targets in Iran, waging war from the air. Could there soon be boots on the ground? Maybe. But not American ones. Iranian Kurdish opposition groups in exile in northern Iraq have told the BBC they have plans to cross the border - and have had them for decades - but they flatly deny claims that their fighters have already done so. "We have been preparing for this for the past 47 years, since the age of the Islamic Republic," said Hana Yazdanpana, of the Kurdistan Freedom Party (PAK), which claims to have the biggest armed force. But she insisted that "not a single Peshmerga has moved". The Kurdish word peshmerga means "those who face death". Yazdanpana told us that six opposition groups - which recently formed a coalition - were co-ordinating with each other politically and militarily. "No-one moves alone," she told us. "We will know if our brothers are going to move." She does not expect fighters to advance this week. First, the US needs to pave the way. "We can't move if the air above us is not cleaned," she said. "And we need the regime's weapons depots to be destroyed. Otherwise, it would be suicidal. The regime is very brutal, and the most advanced weapon we have is a Kalashnikov." She wants the US to impose a no-fly zone to protect Kurdish fighters. "We have asked for this many times," she said. "I was the one who sent the emails saying 'we need it urgently'." The White House has denied a report that US President Donald Trump was considering arming the Kurds - many of whom were trained by US forces in the past to fight against the Islamic State (IS) group in Iraq. But as the chatter about a possible advance by Iranian Kurdish forces increases, so do Tehran's attacks on them. We saw the aftermath of strikes on two different groups, including a ballistic missile attack which tore through a PAK base, killing one fighter. Some groups have emptied their bases and moved their forces to try to shield them from attack. Joining the battle against the regime would be a huge risk, and it's unclear what Trump may be offering in return. The Kurds, which are the fourth largest ethnic group in the Middle East, are scattered between Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey. They have a long history of being persecuted and betrayed. As the Kurdish saying goes, "we have no friends but the mountains". Can the US be trusted to keep any promises it may make? Many Kurds in Syria - staunch US allies in the battle against IS - were angered recently when Trump sided with the transitional government in Damascus against them. But some senior Iranian Kurdish leaders take a pragmatic view. "America and Israel did not begin this war for our hopes, but for their own interests," said Mustafa Mauludi, vice-president of the Kurdistan Democratic Party of Iran (KDPI). "But they are targeting bases of the Islamic Revolution Guard Corps [IRGC], and this will be good for us and help us to go in." At 67, he has been waiting most of his lifetime for the fall of the Islamic regime. Wearing traditional Kurdish dress, he recounted a painful family history - one cousin killed by the regime aged 13 and another who remains in prison after 31 years on suspicion of collaborating with the opposition. He said 60% of his family had been arrested and badly treated because of his political activities. Mauludi already has a mental picture of his first moments back on home soil. "When I get to the first village," he told us, "I will say with a loud voice: 'I have been fighting for you, you are my people, and now I will fight even more.'" He believes he will be there in time to celebrate the Kurdish new year festival, Nowruz, which falls on 21 March. The Kurds account for about 10% of Iran's population of 90 million. Their leaders here are calling on the international community to back Trump, and to back them. "We are the most politically organised group in Iran," said Abdullah Mohtadi, secretary general of the Komala Party of Iranian Kurdistan. "And we won't let this opportunity [for change] be wasted." He is disappointed with the UK's stance. "I'm astonished that Britain is the only country in the continent [of Europe] that has not registered the IRGC as a terrorist organisation," Mohtadi said. He also criticised Britain's "hesitation" over allowing the US to use its bases to strike Iran. It is hard to gauge how many troops the Kurds could muster. "It may be several thousand, including some already inside," according to one local journalist, who is Kurdish himself. "They want to be part of the change in Iran, to ensure they are part of the future. Despite the lessons of history, they continue to hope." Some Iranian Kurds say it is time to act - with or without American promises. "If we have the slightest hope of seeing our homeland, that is ok for us," said one woman in the city of Sulaymaniyah, close to the Iranian border. "We call it [Iran] the Islamic regime of the executioner. We hate them so much. They have killed so many people." All of this leaves Iraq in a difficult position, fearful of getting dragged into the war next door. The government in Baghdad has said it will not allow groups "to infiltrate or cross the Iranian border to carry out terrorist acts from Iraqi territory". If Kurdish forces cross the border, it will be a bittersweet moment for the PAK's Hana Yazdanpana. "Going back to my land will be very emotional," she said. "My uncles and grandparents died here [in northern Iraq]. I don't know how to feel, happy or sad, because those who really deserve to see this day are gone." Additional reporting by Wietske Burema, Matthew Goddard and Bizhar Shareef The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"The number of explosions, the destruction, what is happening - it's unbelievable," says Salar, whose name has been changed. Iran's capital, Tehran, is under heavy attack since strikes began on 28 February, as the US and Israel target military and political sites in a bid to weaken the Islamic regime. However, other areas have been hit as a consequence of the strikes. Iranian officials said more than 160 people, including children, were killed when a girls' school was hit in the city of Minab on Saturday. The White House says the US is investigating the incident but does not target civilians. More than 1,100 Iranian civilians have been killed since hostilities began, according to the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRNA). "What we are experiencing now is beyond what we experienced during the 12-day war," one local living in Tehran tells BBC Persian, referring to the conflict between Israel and Iran last year. While some Iranians say the ongoing attacks have left them fearing for their families, others characterise the regime as fearful and express hope for the country's future. The first wave of strikes killed Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, but air attacks have shown little sign of relenting in the days since. "Each day has felt like a month," Salar says. "The volume of attacks is so high." He said a recent air strike left his whole house shaking and described having to leave his windows open so the glass wouldn't shatter. International news organisations are often refused visas to Iran, which severely limits their ability to gather information about what is going on inside the country. Internet blackouts make the situation even harder. Most people are staying indoors, only venturing out for supplies. The regime appears to have increased its security presence on the streets, which Iranians have seen as a response to the dissent shown following the ayatollah's death. "There are checkpoints everywhere. They're scared of their own shadows," says one 25-year-old student in Tehran. "We're waiting for the grand moment, the final moment, when we all go out and we will be victorious." The price of staples like eggs and potatoes has also skyrocketed, he said, and the queues for petrol and bread "are unbelievable". Another resident of the capital tells the BBC that most shops are closed and some cash machines out of service, though supermarkets and bakeries remain open. Tehran feels "empty" and anyone leaving their home must have an "urgent reason", she says. "On the first day, people were chanting and everyone seemed happy. But now there are police forces around." Salar described threats from security forces about speaking out against the country's regime. While getting access to independent information has been hard, Salar says Iranian security forces have been making their demands clear. "Every day they send SMS messages warning that if we go outside, they will deal with us harshly," he says. "A message came saying that if anyone among you goes out and protests 'we consider you Israeli collaborators'." He believes the tone of the message suggested that anyone who disobeyed would be dealt with forcefully, or even killed. BBC Persian also spoke to Kaveh, whose name has also been changed, who lives in Zanjan, a city around 275km (170 miles) north-west of Tehran, which has also been targeted. "In the first three days, our city was heavily bombed," he says. "We live in an area where fighter jets constantly pass overhead." He adds that, following the outbreak of war, the sky had been constantly cloudy from the columns of smoke rising from the sites of air strikes - an image he describes as "simultaneously beautiful and horrifying". Salar says he sent his parents north, though he wasn't sure which cities would be safe. Their house is in the Shariati neighbourhood of Tehran, where there are many military facilities that have been targeted. "My mother was in very bad shape - she was very frightened," he says, adding that the current strikes are worse than any she experienced during the eight-year Iran-Iraq war in the 1980s. More people continue to leave Tehran as each day passes, he adds, but it is not an option for everyone. "My friend's grandmother is ill and they can't move her." The internet blackouts have also made it extremely difficult for Iranians to contact their loved ones. Kaveh says that, alongside survival, his biggest concerns have been trying to maintain some contact with family and friends, and getting access to reliable news. His internet connection cut off around midday on the first day of the attacks, he recalls, and he was not able to get back online for two days. Both Kaveh and Salar are using Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), which allow them to access internet sites that are blocked by the Iranian government, but this is no easy feat. When he does get online, Kaveh tries to help "friends outside Iran who have no news from their families - to get updates or pass along messages". Due to the tight security situation in Iran, it is not possible to gauge the overall reaction to death of the supreme leader. While some took to the streets to celebrate, others took part in public displays of mourning led by government authorities. Kaveh found the news of Khamenei's killing difficult to believe at first. "I had always imagined that moment would feel like happiness, but it didn't," he says. "Almost all the years of my life and the lives of millions like me were destroyed and thousands lost their lives - and yet he himself was removed from the scene in a single moment, [which] made me truly angry." Saleh says he didn't expect the celebrations on the street to news of the supreme leader's death. "The city atmosphere after the attack was very security-heavy. It still is." Neither of the men know what the war will mean for them, their families or their country. "I doubt any of us will ever be the same as before," Salar says, adding that many people are severely stressed. "Those abroad, especially monarchists," he says - referring to the supporters of the son of Iran's former royal family who have supported the US and Israeli military action - "really don't know what we are experiencing". He adds: "I hope they never have to." Kaveh says he feels the war "won't end as quickly as we thought". "But even so, my hope hasn't decreased. If anything, it grows stronger each day." "I don't know what will happen after this 'operation'," he says, but adds that, without it, "something worse would definitely have happened". "This way, at least there is still a chance for life and for tomorrow." Additional reporting by Alex Boyd, Ghoncheh Habibiazad, Caroline Hawley and Tom McArthur The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Sir Keir Starmer has said he stands by his decision not to join the initial US-Israel strikes on Iran on Saturday, and said talks would be the best way forward. At a Downing Street news conference, the PM said the UK had "the strength to stand by our values and our principles no matter the pressure to do otherwise". The UK's longstanding position was that the best way forward was a "negotiated settlement with Iran where they give up their nuclear ambitions", he added, saying efforts should be made to "de-escalate" the conflict. Sir Keir said the conflict could continue for "some time", as he announced the UK is sending four additional Typhoon fighter jets to Qatar. US President Donald Trump has already criticised the prime minister for refusing to allow the use of UK bases in the initial strikes, and said he is "not Winston Churchill". The UK agreed on Sunday to a US request to use British military bases but only for defensive strikes on Iranian missile sites. Trump said the initial decision was "shocking" and that the UK-US relationship was "not what it was". But Sir Keir insisted the special relationship between the US and the UK had not been fractured. "Look, the special relationship is in operation right now," he told reporters on Thursday. "We're sharing intelligence on a 247 basis in the usual way. That is the special relationship." Sir Keir, who chaired a meeting of the government's emergency committee Cobra on Thursday, acknowledged that people are "worried sick about their family and friends who are caught up in this". "We will do everything we can to protect British lives," he said. The PM denied the UK was not prepared for the conflict, pointing out that Britain began pre-deploying assets to the region earlier this year - particularly Qatar and Cyprus - alongside the US and other allies. Defence sources said 400 additional UK personnel had been sent over the past weeks to support air defence activities across the UK's bases in Cyprus. It comes after the government faced criticism for its response when British bases in Bahrain and Cyprus were struck at the weekend. "A lot of pre-planning has gone into this and a lot of pre-deployment," the prime minister said. "I am satisfied we can keep our people safe." Along with the Typhoon jets which defence sources say will be "rapidly" deployed, two wildcat helicopters with anti-drone-capabilities will also arrive in Cyprus on Friday. The British warship HMS Dragon will also sail to Cyprus, but Defence Secretary John Healey told the BBC it will arrive "within the next couple of weeks". It comes after a drone struck the runway at RAF Akrotiri on Sunday, causing what the Ministry of Defence described as "minimal damage". Earlier, Conservative leader Kemi Badenoch told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Sometimes the best way to de-escalate a situation is to try and finish it quickly, rather than let it drag out because you don't want to get involved. "Once our bases had been attacked, I think we became part of this, whether we liked it or not." Healey met his counterpart Vasilis Palmas in Cyprus on Thursday to discuss how the UK was reinforcing air defences to support "our shared security," the PM's spokesman said. Speaking to the BBC afterwards, he declined to answer whether he would rule out the UK joining the US and Israel strikes on Iran. "We're doing now what the British can do best. We've got more jets here in Cyprus than any other nation," he said. But he said, "the nature of any war, and any conflict, is that it changes". "We just don't know for sure what the Iranians will do," he said, adding that the UK will adapt its action to ensure protection of the British people, forces and allies. He also said the best assessment of the drone that struck the Akrotiri base was "probably fired from Lebanon". Lorraine, a Briton who has lived in Cyprus for 35 years, told the BBC: "We feel more supported from the other European countries than we do from our own." She praised Greece and France for being quick to help after attacks on the island, and her message for the UK government was to "step up". Meanwhile, the UK has updated its travel advice for Cyprus, warning that the risk of a terrorist attack cannot be ruled out. Sir Keir also said the first government-chartered flight for Britons stranded in the Middle East has taken off from Oman after it was delayed. The repatriation flight from Oman was due to take off on Wednesday evening but it remained grounded after technical issues. Sir Keir said that about 4,000 Britons had already made it home from the region, with thousands still stuck in the Middle East. More than 140,000 people in the region have registered their presence with the UK government, he said. A further seven flights are due to leave the UAE for the UK on Thursday, Sir Keir said, adding that the government will lay on additional charter flights in the coming days. He said British Airways was putting on daily flights from Oman, and the government will keep working with partners to "increase the speed and capacity of this airlift". Iran has retaliated to US-Israeli air strikes by launching attacks on Israel and US-allied states in the Gulf, including Qatar, Bahrain, Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Oman and Saudi Arabia. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran's military posture in a widening conflict with Israel and the US suggests it is not fighting for victory in any conventional sense. It is fighting for survival, and survival on its own terms. The Islamic Republic's leaders and commanders have been preparing for this moment for years. They understood that their regional ambitions could eventually trigger a direct confrontation with Israel or the US, and that a war with one would almost certainly draw in the other. That pattern was evident in the 12-day war last summer, when Israel struck first and the US joined days later. In the current round of fighting, they launched strikes on Iran simultaneously. Given the technological superiority, intelligence capabilities and advanced military hardware of the US and Israel, it would be naive to think Iranian strategists were planning for a straightforward battlefield victory. Instead, Iran appears to have built a strategy around deterrence and endurance. It has invested heavily in layered ballistic missile capabilities, long-range drones and a network of allied armed groups across the region over the past decade. It understands its own limitations: US mainland territory is out of reach but American bases across the region - specifically in neighbouring Arab countries - are not. Israel also lies well within range of Iranian missiles and drones, and recent exchanges have demonstrated that its air defence systems can be penetrated. Each projectile that goes through those systems carries not just military but psychological weight. Iran's calculus rests partly on the economics of war. Interceptors used by Israel and the US are much more expensive than many of the one-way drones and missiles deployed by Iran. Prolonged conflict forces the US and Israel to use up high-value assets to intercept comparatively low-cost threats. Energy is another lever in the war economy. The Strait of Hormuz remains one of the world's most critical chokepoints for oil and gas shipments. Iran does not need to close the narrow Gulf waterway entirely - even credible threats and limited disruptions have already pushed prices up and, if continued, may increase international pressure for de-escalation. In this sense, escalation becomes a tool not necessarily to defeat Iran's opponents militarily but instead to raise the cost of continuing the war. This brings us to attacks on neighbouring countries. Missile and drone strikes on states such as Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Oman and Iraq appear designed to signal that hosting US forces carries risks. Tehran may hope these governments will press Washington to limit or halt operations - but this is a dangerous gamble. To expand attacks further risks hardening their hostility and pushing these states more firmly into the US-Israel camp. The long-term consequences could outlast the war itself, reshaping regional alignments in ways that leave Iran more isolated. If survival is the primary objective, then widening the circle of enemies is a high-stakes move. Yet from Tehran's perspective, restraint may appear equally risky if it signals weakness. Reports that local commanders may be selecting targets or launching missiles with relative autonomy raises further questions. If accurate, this would not necessarily indicate the collapse of command structures. Iran's military doctrine, particularly within the Islamic Revolution Guard Corps (IRGC), has long incorporated decentralised elements to ensure continuity under heavy attack. Communication networks are vulnerable to interception and jamming. Senior commanders have been targeted. Air superiority by the US and Israel limits central oversight. Under such conditions, pre-authorised target lists and delegated launch authority could be deliberate safeguards against decapitation. This structure may explain how Iranian forces have continued operating after the killing of senior IRGC figures and even after the killing of Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme leader and commander-in-chief, in the opening US-Israeli strikes on Saturday. But decentralisation carries risks. Local commanders acting with incomplete information may strike unintended targets, including neighbouring states that had sought neutrality. The absence of a unified operational picture increases the probability of miscalculation. If this continues for long, it could also result in the loss of command and control. Ultimately, Iran's approach appears to rest on a belief that it can absorb punishment longer than its adversaries are willing to sustain pain and costs. If this is the case, then it is a form of calculated escalation: endure, retaliate, avoid total collapse and wait for political fractures to emerge on the other side. Yet endurance has limits. Missile stockpiles are limited and production lines are constantly under attack. Mobile launchers are targeted on the move and replacing them takes time. The same logic applies to Iran's opponents. Israel has not been able to rely completely on its air defence systems. Each breach amplifies public anxiety. The US must weigh regional escalation, energy market volatility and the financial burden of sustained operations. Both sides seem to assume that time favours them. Both cannot be right. In this war, the Islamic Republic does not need triumph. It needs to remain standing. Whether that objective is achievable, and without permanently alienating its neighbours, remains the unanswered question. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Warning: this story contains details which some readers might find distressing ​​Satellite imagery analysis reveals multiple strikes and burn marks around a school in southern Iran, suggesting it was hit more than once, in an attack Iranian authorities say killed 168 people on Saturday. Verified videos and satellite imagery show extensive damage around the Shajareh Tayebeh primary school in Minab and the adjacent Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) compound. It also suggests the area was "struck by multiple simultaneous or near-simultaneous strikes", says munitions expert N R Jenzen Jones. Two damaged buildings can be clearly seen in the image: one completely flattened within the IRGC base and the school building that is partially collapsed. Verified footage of the immediate aftermath of the strikes shows scenes of panic, with families screaming, as people search for victims in the rubble. In some videos, people hold up children's schoolbags and books to the camera. Three days later, aerial footage showed neatly lined rows of at least 100 marked or freshly dug graves. Iranian officials have blamed the US and Israel for the attack, however neither country has accepted responsibility. Israel says it was not aware of any operations in the area, while US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said that Washington was still investigating the incident and that it would "never target, civilian targets". An ongoing internet blackout in Iran has made it difficult to independently verify details of the incident. There has been intense speculation about what the intended target of the attack was. According to the Iranian authorities, it took place at around 10:45 local time (07:15 GMT). BBC Verify has confirmed footage posted on social media on Saturday morning, the first day of the Iranian working week, which shows the immediate aftermath. In one video a man films as he rushes into the school's courtyard which is located immediately to the north-east of the IRGC base. Part of a sign above the entrance is visible, which matches the first three letters of the word primary school in Persian. From inside the school's courtyard, four plumes of black smoke can be seen, with two smaller ones pouring out of the windows of the top floor of the main school building. Walls decorated with children's murals and letters of the Persian alphabet separate the school courtyard from the IRGC base. Another clip filmed from a moving vehicle on the southern edge of the IRGC compound shows a sign marking the entrance. There are two visible IRGC logos on the entrances to the "Seyed al-Shohada educational and cultural corps" and a medical clinic, which Iranian media reports as belonging to the IRGC navy. At least three columns of black smoke are visible in the footage: two closer to the entrance of the base, and a third further away behind the medical clinic. The location of smoke plumes in verified videos correspond to where the damage is visible in satellite images. Footage filmed later in the day showed significant damage to the school building. Emergency services search through the rubble while distressed families move slowly around the courtyard, some wailing. One widely shared video geolocated to the school shows rescue teams at the scene finding a child's severed arm beneath the rubble. Schoolbooks and bloodied backpacks were also filmed among the debris. Without access to more footage on the ground or eyewitness testimony, satellite imagery is crucial to our understanding of what happened. Satellite imagery captured by Planet Labs on 4 March - four days after the incident - reveals more widespread destruction than previously confirmed in verified videos. Several buildings in the area have been partially or fully destroyed and BBC Verify has identified at least five buildings with visible craters and black scorch marks - which indicates that there were several strikes. "So many [impact sites] so close together (relatively speaking) suggests there were one or more targets in close proximity to each other," said satellite image analyst Jamon Van den Hoek from Oregon State University. "[It] seems it was intentional to hit the area," he said, adding "But we don't know what they intended to strike." A senior analyst from McKenzie Intelligence Services told BBC Verify the crater on the ground floor of the two-story school building indicates that a specialised munition may have been used to "penetrate to the lower levels". The school building is located near the IRGC base. Satellite imagery from 2013 appears to show the school building was part of the same compound, before a wall is seen in 2016 separating it. Iran says the attack was carried out by the US and Israel. But neither Israel nor the US have claimed responsibility for damage to the school. Israel has said it was "not aware" of any IDF operations in the area but told BBC Verify it is looking into the incident. On Wednesday, US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth told the BBC the US is still investigating the incident. "We of course never target civilian targets, but we're we're taking a look at investigating that," he added. During the news conference, an illustrative map was shown of the "First 100 hours" of the US-Israeli war with Iran, marking the locations of strikes and Iranian air defences along the southern coast of Iran, which includes the area of Minab. Without more footage of the remnants of munitions, it's not possible to clearly identify who is responsible. A widely shared image posted on social media led to claims that the blast had been caused by a failed missile fired by the IRGC. However, we located the image to an unrelated incident in Zanjan, over a thousand kilometres away from Minab. "It is unlikely that the significant blast damage seen here was caused by an Iranian surface-to-air missile, which carry relatively small explosive warheads," director of Armament Research Services, Jenzen Jones said. Iranian officials said most of the 168 people killed were children. BBC Verify has not been able to independently verify those details through footage available of the incident. It's also not clear if any IRGC members were killed, or who may have been operating there. The school itself had 264 pupils in total, according to Iran's Education Ministry. A hand-written list published by Iranian media shows the names of 56 people reportedly killed in the incident, alongside their dates of birth. Forty-eight of these names are aged between six and 11. BBC Verify has not been able to independently verify these details. However, at least three of the names on the list appear in another video where coffins are labelled with the same names. Photos also show what appear to be three children inside body bags. The US-based Human Rights News Agency (Hrana) has so far documented the deaths of 1,114 Iranian civilians since the beginning of the war, including 183 children. Days later, footage of thousands of people lining the streets for the funeral procession was broadcast by Iranian state media. Men can be seen carrying coffins - some child-sized - with the flag of the Islamic Republic draped over them. Crowds of women also held onto photos of boys and girls. The semi-official Tasnim news agency, which is affiliated with the IRGC, published a photo and said 14 school teachers had been killed in the attack. Additional reporting by Paul Brown. What do you want BBC Verify to investigate? The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The conflict in Iran and the Middle East has entered its sixth day, with no let-up in strikes. Israel and the US have intensified attacks, while Iran has carried out fresh retaliatory strikes across the region. More than 900 people have been killed by Israeli and American strikes, Iranian state media reported, and 11 people have died in Israel as Iran fired back. Six US soldiers have died in an Iranian strike that hit a makeshift operations centre in Kuwait. The first US evacuation flight left the Middle East after the Trump administration faced backlash for not having an evacuation plan ready. More than 17,500 US citizens have returned home since February 28. President Trump has said he expects the conflict to last four to five weeks. In his 28 February video announcement, Trump described the US-Israel attacks on Iran as "major combat operations". As commander in chief, a president can carry out certain military operations without a formal declaration of war. According to the 1973 War Powers Resolution, the president is required to notify Congress within 48 hours of hostilities beginning. On Tuesday, Trump submitted a resolution to Congress, telling lawmakers that the threat from Iran had been "untenable" despite efforts to find a diplomatic solution. House Speaker Mike Johnson, a Republican, said the Trump administration had notified the "Gang of 8" - a bipartisan group of the top eight congressional leaders - ahead of the strikes. A bipartisan resolution aimed at limiting Trump's ability to wage war in Iran failed in the US Senate on Wednesday. The war powers measure was rejected in a 53-47 vote, largely along party lines. It would have halted US military action in Iran without congressional approval. Democrats argue that Trump has sidelined Congress and offered shifting reasons for the war. Most Republicans blocked the resolution, but some said they could change course if the war expands in the coming weeks. Shortly after explosions were reported in the Iranian capital on 28 February, Trump took to social media to accuse Tehran of waging an "unending campaign of bloodshed and mass murder targeting the United States". He argued Iran had rejected every opportunity to renounce its nuclear programme and claimed it was developing long-range missiles that could threaten Europe, US troops overseas, and even "soon reach the American homeland". He further cited the violent takeover of the US embassy in Tehran in 1979, resulting in dozens of Americans being held hostage for 444 days, as well as Iran's proxies bombing a US Marine barracks in Beirut in 1983 that killed 241. The US president had also pledged in January to intervene when Iranian security forces crushed protests amid an economic crisis. Trump has also said that it was the "last best chance" to take out missiles and a nuclear threat. Secretary of State Marco Rubio said on 2 March that the mission's objective is to destroy Iran's ballistic missile and naval capabilities. He also said the administration knew there was going to be Israeli action against Iran, and the US would have suffered "much higher casualties" from Iran's response if the US had not struck first. In June last year, the US bombed three nuclear facilities in Iran. Trump said the attack, nicknamed Operation Midnight Hammer by the US, had "obliterated" Iran's nuclear programme. There's no indication US combat troops will be deployed on the ground in Iran, not least because of the low appetite among the American public for a ground invasion. "The president has no plan for any kind of large-scale ground force inside of Iran," Republican Senator Tom Cotton told the BBC's US partner CBS on 1 March. The US operation will include "an extended air and naval campaign", Cotton said, and search-and-rescue efforts could "go in and extract any downed pilot". The US has about 13 military bases across the Middle East, with 30,000 to 40,000 troops normally deployed between them. The US military has been building its presence in the Middle East for weeks and has two aircraft carriers, USS Gerald R Ford and USS Abraham Lincoln, in the region. Trump said on 2 March that the administration expects the campaign to last four to five weeks and that they have "the capability to go far longer than that". On the same day, Rubio said "the hardest hits are yet to come from the US military" and that the next phase "will be even more punishing on Iran than it is right now". The US State Department has  urged Americans in much of the Middle East to leave via commercial means due to "serious safety risks". The advisory applies to citizens in Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, the West Bank, Gaza, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen. Saudi Arabia's Ministry of Defense said on 2 March that the US embassy in Riyadh was attacked by two drones, which caused "a limited fire and minor material damage to the building". The next day, Rubio confirmed that a drone struck a parking lot near the US consulate in Dubai and that all personnel are accounted for. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A woman who has been stranded in Doha after her onward flight was cancelled said she has been "waking up to the sound of missiles" and has no clear pathway to get home. Faye Morton, from Horsforth, Leeds, was travelling to Seoul, South Korea and had arranged a stop-over in Qatar but has been forced to stay in her hotel since she arrived on Saturday. Morton said she has spent most of her time crying in her room, where she could hear missiles: "I'm struggling, I'm not going to lie". The first flight chartered by the UK government to transport Britons stranded in the Middle East home has now departed, while Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said more flights are due to leave later on Thursday. Morton is one of thousands of British nationals in the Middle East affected by the US-Israeli strikes on Iran on Saturday which prompted retaliatory strikes by Iran across the region. More than 130,000 Britons in the region have registered for updates from the UK government. Despite doing this, Morton, who is travelling alone, has told BBC Radio Leeds she feels "left in the lurch" by the UK government and has been unable to speak to anyone about her situation. Sir Keir Starmer said on Thursday that more than 4,000 people have arrived back in the UK on commercial flights from the UAE, including "vulnerable Brits". A further seven flights will depart from the UAE to the UK later in the day, with the government laying on additional charter flights in the days to come. British Airways is also putting on daily flights from Oman. Foreign Office minister Hamish Falconer described the situation as "a consular challenge on a scale not seen since Covid" and said there were "no instant solutions." Morton said she booked a flight home as soon as she received an alert about the situation but that has not happened yet. "I tried to get in touch with the British Embassy and completely failed, I've not had much support to be honest," she explained. Since then she said she been inside her hotel, where she has met a number of other British nationals. "I have not actually seen outside the hotel in daylight and we don't have any clarity on what's going to happen," she said. "I am struggling. I spend most of my days crying, just shaking and I can't eat, can't sleep, I just need to see my family." Morton's family have been trying to arrange a flight home for her but have so far been unsuccessful. "They have limited scope in what they can do, it all feels helpless," she said. Katie White, Labour MP for Leeds North West, said she wanted to raise the case directly with officials at the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office. She said: "This is a fast-changing situation." Current government advice for British nationals in the region is to register with the Foreign Office, monitor the latest travel advice and follow instructions of the local authorities. Listen to highlights from West Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, catch up with the latest episode of Look North. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Cornwall's Chamber of Commerce president says the route generated most of the airport's revenue. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A woman who is stranded in Thailand due to the US-Israel conflict with Iran have said their dream holiday has turned into a nightmare. Laura Webster from Birmingham has been told by their travel agent that there are no available flights to get them home for the next two weeks. Webster and her husband had booked to fly with Emirates to Dubai on Wednesday for a three-night stay, before taking another flight to Birmingham, but it was cancelled. Emirates told passengers it was operating "a reduced flight schedule until further notice", and those transiting in Dubai would "only be accepted for travel if their connecting flight is operating". Webster, 40, said: "We've got work, we've got kids. We want to get back ASAP. We don't care if that means four flights." The couple both have young children in the UK who are being cared for by former partners. She added: "My husband found [a flight] via Japan for £10,000 each, which obviously we're not going to do. "Unless you have a direct flight that's already booked from Bangkok to London, you're stuffed for two weeks at least." The vast majority of flights to and from the Middle East have been cancelled due to widespread airspace closures since the conflict began on Saturday. Passengers booked on a flight arriving in the UK with a non-UK or European Union based airline are not covered by UK consumer law. This means they have no right to be re-booked with another airline if it will get them to their destination quicker. Laura said their travel agent arranged for them to get an extra three nights of accommodation, but then they woulchave to fend for themselves as "you can't claim for it on insurance, because it's war". She added: "It's just horrible. It's literally a holiday from hell. John Gifford from Ward End, Birmingham, was also stranded in Dubai with his wife Lisa due to the ongoing conflict, but has since managed to return safely back home. He told BBC Radio WM: "We did it ourselves, there was nothing coming from the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) about what was going on and we couldn't get in touch with Emirates. "We thought we can't wait around forever, so we took it upon ourselves at our own cost to book the flights and got the early morning flight out. He flew from Dubai on an airbus that was "pretty much full" and packed with families with small children, he said. "Luckily we had the resources to get out, but not everyone does." The FCDO has said the first government charter flight had taken off from Oman on Thursday to bring British nationals home, with more than 4,000 people said to have landed in the UK on Wednesday. Those still stranded in Bahrain, Israel, Kuwait, Palestine, Qatar and United Arab Emirates have been urged to register their presence via the FCDO website. Follow BBC Birmingham on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. Zeshan Afzal, 18, died after he was attacked outside a mosque in February. The Metro tram service in Birmingham city centre now serves  Albert Street and Millennium Point. PD Chip has sniffed out many items over the years including sim cards and trackers. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iran's military has said it has targeted the headquarters of Iranian Kurdish forces in northern Iraq, stepping up strikes on Kurdish regions in both Iran and Iraq. The military said it attacked "Kurdish groups opposed to the [Islamic] revolution in Iraqi Kurdistan with three missiles". One person was killed and three injured in the strikes on Tuesday and Wednesday, the BBC has confirmed. Tehran is intensifying its attacks on Iranian Kurdish groups in Iraq amid reports that US President Donald Trump wants them to join the fight against Iran, as US and Israeli strikes continue. Kurdish Iranian opposition parties in Iraq have denied reports that some of their forces have crossed into Iran. "This is not true. Do not believe it," said Hanna Hussein Yazdan Pana of the Kurdistan Freedom Party (PAK). "Not a single Peshmerga [fighter] has moved. No-one moves alone." She said six Kurdish opposition groups - which recently formed a coalition - were co-ordinating their plans but needed the Americans to pave the way for a move.  She told the BBC nothing would happen this week. "It's not about the hours or days. We cannot move if the air above us is not cleaned. We need to see weapons depots [of Iran's security forces] being destroyed. Otherwise, it would be suicidal." Pana also called for a no-fly zone to provide protection for Kurdish forces. "The regime is very brutal," she said, "and the most advanced weapon we have is a Kalashnikov." There has been growing speculation that Trump wants Kurdish forces to join the war, to provide boots on the ground. The White House has denied a report that the president is considering arming them. On Wednesday, the BBC visited the scene of the Iranian attacks on two separate Kurdish opposition groups. One base was hit by a ballistic missile at about 11:00 local time (08:00 GMT) on Wednesday, injuring four Kurdish Peshmerga fighters. One died later from his injuries. One building at the base had been crushed, with rubble and twisted metal strewn over a wide area. There was also a hole in the ground, gouged out by a missile. At another base - belonging to the Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan (KDPI) - the BBC saw the aftermath of a double drone strike on Tuesday, which was said to have injured one civilian. A senior political leader of the KDPI told the BBC he believed that the Kurds would be fighting in Iran soon - but did not give an exact timeline. He would not comment on reports that Trump has spoken to the KDPI leader in recent days. A fighter called Hassan, 25, armed with an AK-47, said he was eager to go to Iran to fight for freedom. "We are closer than ever," he said. Sir Simon Gass, a former British ambassador in Tehran, described Iran as "a patchwork of different ethnicities" with a Persian majority and significant minorities of Kurds, Balochs, Arabs and Azeris. "If the United States and Israel find a way to ignite some of those groups into armed insurrection against the regime, it will be another problem which the regime needs to manage. It will be extremely difficult," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. Gass said Iranian Kurdish opposition fighters were "relatively lightly armed" and "under normal circumstances you would not expect them to be able to stand up to the strength of the Iranian armed forces". "However, if they are supported by special forces from other countries who can call in air support - that could be a different matter," the former diplomat added. More than 30 million Kurds inhabit a mountainous region straddling the borders of Turkey, Iraq, Syria, Iran and Armenia. They make up the fourth-largest ethnic group in the Middle East, but they have never obtained a permanent nation state. About 10% of Shia Muslim-majority Iran's 91 million population are Kurds, who are mainly Sunni Muslims and live mostly in the country's north-western regions. Amnesty International has said that Iranian Kurds have "long suffered deep-rooted discrimination" and that "their social, political and cultural rights have been repressed, as have their economic aspirations". The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An American submarine sank an Iranian warship in the Indian Ocean, the US defence secretary has said. Pete Hegseth said the ship was sunk by a torpedo on Tuesday and died a "quiet death". He did not name the vessel. His announcement came after Sri Lanka said its navy had responded to a distress call on Wednesday morning from an Iranian ship, the Iris Dena, which had gone down about 40km (25 miles) from its southern coastline. Eighty bodies from the frigate were found by rescuers, a Sri Lankan defence official told BBC Sinhala. Another 32 were rescued, the country's navy said. Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said the US had "perpetrated an atrocity at sea, 2,000 miles away from Iran's shores". "Frigate Dena, a guest of India's Navy carrying almost 130 sailors, was struck in international waters without warning," he wrote in a post on X early on Thursday. "Mark my words: The US will come to bitterly regret precedent it has set." A Sri Lankan navy spokesman said some 180 people were believed to have been aboard the Iris Dena, based on the ship's documentation. The survivors were "seriously injured" and had been taken to a hospital in the southern port of Galle, Sri Lankan Foreign Minister Vijitha Herath said. Hegseth told a news conference on Wednesday that a US submarine had sunk an Iranian warship "that thought it was safe in international waters". He also claimed it was "the first sinking of an enemy ship by a torpedo since World War Two". While it is the first time since 1945 that an American submarine has sunk an enemy ship this way, the UK and Pakistan have both sunk vessels using torpedoes since then. Video released by the US Department of Defense showed a ship being struck, causing the stern to rise up before exploding. Earlier, Sri Lankan navy spokesman Budhika Sampath had rejected reports that the Iris Dena had been attacked by a submarine. He added that, at the time rescue operations were launched, rescuers had not seen the vessel - nor any other ships in the region - but saw oil patches and life rafts floating on the water. Though the ship's location "was beyond our waters", Sampath said, "it was within our search and rescue region. So we were obliged to respond as per international obligations". First launched in 2015, the Iris Dena is a destroyer attached to Iran's Southern Fleet, which is tasked with deployments in the Strait of Hormuz and Gulf of Oman. It had recently participated in International Fleet Review 2026, a military exercise hosted by India. The sinking of the Iris Dena comes as the US and Israel have continued to launch air strikes on Iran for a fifth day, with the Israeli military saying it had hit "security headquarters" across the capital, Tehran, on Wednesday. Israel has also conducted air strikes on Lebanon and has sent ground forces into the south of the country after armed group Hezbollah launched rockets and drones at Israel. Iran appears to have continued to carry out retaliatory attacks. New strikes were reported in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait on Wednesday, while Turkey said "Nato defences" shot down an Iranian missile heading towards Turkish territory. Sri Lanka has remained neutral in the conflict. It has refrained from taking any side, calling for "restraint and immediate de-escalation" from "all concerned parties". Herath, its foreign affairs minister, paid tribute to Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khameini after he was assassinated on Saturday. A government spokesman later said Sri Lanka would issue a formal message of condolence regarding all deaths resulting from the conflict, including Iranian state leaders and officials who had been killed. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Newlyweds travelling back from their honeymoon are among thousands who have been left stranded in the Middle East due to the US-Israel war with Iran. Darren and Natalie Chetkowski from Yateley, Hampshire, landed at the Hamad International Airport in Doha on Saturday on their way back from the Maldives. They were expecting to catch connecting flights to Heathrow, however these were soon cancelled. The couple said they are growing increasingly concerned that people stuck in Doha are "not being well informed". The Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) said it is working 247 to ensure British nationals can return as swiftly and safely as possible. When the pair was notified that their flights to Heathrow had been cancelled, they decided to spend the night at the airport. However, they were soon woken up by security informing them they needed to leave. Darren said: "There was a bit of a panic. "Everyone was really stressed, but then it took us four-and-a-half hours to get from  the security gate to the bus, so everybody was squashed in. They were then taken to a hotel, which is where they have been staying ever since. Darren said: "They've looked after us really well." "It's just, you don't really know what's going on." During their first night at the hotel, Darren said he was woken up by "four loud bangs". He said: "They literally made me jump out of bed. "The other night we got woke up at about 01:30 and moved all of our duvet towards the hotel door." Natalie added: "We both leapt out of bed... every noise you're listening for, even people now slamming the hotel doors, you're jumping out of your skin. "It puts you on edge massively." The newlyweds do not know when they will be able to fly home. Natalie said: "We were getting daily updates, but that's now changed this morning (Wednesday) to wait another couple of days, so we know we're here until probably at least then, unless the government can give us any more information that we haven't seen or heard." The FCDO said it is working to ensure British nationals can return as swiftly and safely as possible. Prime Minister Keir Starmer said on Thursday: "We will lay on additional charter flights in the coming days. British Airways is putting on daily flights from Oman. "And we will keep working with all our partners to increase the speed and capacity of this airlift." The newlyweds, who lived in Berkshire for years before moving to Hampshire, have children at home who are being looked after by family members. Natalie added: "It worries me that we just don't know. "We have no idea when we're going to get home, and that is a worry. Or are we going to get home? "We obviously realise it has to be safe, and we're all for that, but it's just really worrying that we can't even say to the kids." Darren said: "Obviously things are going on behind the scenes, but I feel like we're being, not forgotten about, but we're not being well informed... we need to know what's going on." Natalie added: "We've got a lovely hotel room, they're (the Doha government) paying for our food and our accommodation, so for that, we can't thank them enough and they're keeping us safe from all the missiles that we're hearing at the moment." AFC Stoneham is heading to Wembley for the first time in its history after reaching FA Vase final. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Cornwall's Chamber of Commerce president says the route generated most of the airport's revenue. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The former RAF Ibsley control tower is being saved from ruin by The Landmark Trust. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US military has confirmed the identities of all six soldiers killed in the conflict with Iran. They were killed when an "unmanned aircraft system" evaded air defences to hit a command centre in Port Shuaiba, Kuwait, on Sunday. US Central Command initially said three soldiers died in the attack, but officials confirmed on Monday the death toll had doubled, after one person succumbed to injuries and two more bodies were found in the rubble. Those killed were Chief Warrant Officer 3 Robert M Marzan, 54, Maj Jeffrey R O'Brien, 45, Capt Cody Khork, 35, Sgt Noah Tietjens, 42, Sgt Nicole Amor, 39, and Sgt Declan Coady, 20, who was posthumously promoted from specialist. The six identified by the Pentagon were members of the Army Reserve, which according to its website provides logistical support to broader US military operations. Four were identified on Tuesday while the identities of the last two - Marzan and O'Brien - were disclosed on Wednesday. "These men and women all bravely volunteered to defend our country, and their sacrifice will never be forgotten," US Army Secretary Daniel Driscoll said in a statement. White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said on Wednesday that President Donald Trump intends to attend "the dignified transfer of these American heroes to stand in grief alongside their families". She added that the defence department was scheduling the repatriation of the remains. Khork had previously deployed to Saudi Arabia, Guantanamo Bay and Poland. The Florida resident had wanted to serve in the military since a young age, and enlisted in the Reserve Officers' Training Corps (ROTC) programme at his university, his family told the Associated Press. Khork was "truly the life of the party, known for his infectious spirit, generous heart, and deep care for those who served alongside him and for everyone blessed to know him", his mother, Donna Burhans, father, James Khork, and stepmother, Stacey Khork, said in a statement. Amor, of Minnesota, had previously deployed to Kuwait and Iraq. "She was almost home," her husband, Joey Amor, told the AP. "You don't go to Kuwait thinking something's going to happen, and for her to be one of the first – it hurts." She had a son in high school and a daughter in primary school, and enjoyed gardening and rollerblading with them. Tietjens, a Nebraska resident, had been deployed to Kuwait twice before. He was "a deeply committed husband and father", according to a GoFundMe page set up for his family. He earned a black belt in Taekwondo and a form of martial arts known as Philippine Combatives, according to the Philippine Martial Arts Alliance, which posted a tribute to Tietjens on their Facebook page. "He did not simply wear a Black Belt... he lived it," the alliance wrote. "He led with integrity. He trained with purpose. He taught with humility." All three were decorated service members. Coady was posthumously promoted from specialist, the US military said. The Iowa resident had enlisted in the Army Reserve just three years ago. He served as an information technologies specialist and had "an incredibly bright future ahead of him", Drake University, where Coady had studied, said in a statement. His father, Andrew Coady, told the AP that his son "was very good at what he did". "I still don't fully think it's real," said his sister Keira Coady. "I just remember all of our conversations about what he was going to do when he came back." O'Brien of Indianola, Iowa, joined the reserves in 2012 and deployed to Kuwait in 2019. The identity of Marzan, of Sacramento, California, must still be formalised by a medical examiner, the army said in a statement. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said in a briefing on Monday that a "powerful weapon" had struck a "tactical operations centre that was fortified". Three US military officials with knowledge of Iran's attack told the BBC's US partner CBS the soldiers had been working in a makeshift office space. The officials questioned whether the building had been adequately fortified, telling CBS the soldiers were using a trailer shielded by steel-reinforced concrete barriers. The US has a long-standing defence relationship with Kuwait, and more than 13,000 US soldiers are stationed in the Gulf nation. Iran has responded to attacks against it by launching missiles at Gulf countries allied with the US. Bahrain, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman and Qatar have all also seen strikes. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A bipartisan resolution aimed at limiting President Donald Trump's ability to wage war in Iran has failed in the US Senate, as the strikes continue. The war powers measure was rejected in a 53-47 vote largely along party lines. It would have halted US military action in Iran without congressional approval. Democrats argue that Trump has sidelined Congress and offered shifting reasons for the war. Most Republicans blocked the resolution, but some said they could change course if the war expands in the coming weeks. The US and Israel began striking Iran on Saturday. The Islamic republic has responded by launching attacks on Israel and US-allied states in the Gulf. With no clear off-ramp in sight, Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said the war could last eight weeks - almost double the duration mentioned by Trump at the weekend. Two senators crossed the aisle in Wednesday's vote. Democratic Senator John Fetterman of Pennsylvania opposed the measure, while Republican Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky voted for it. Otherwise, everyone else voted along party lines. Senator Susan Collins, a moderate Republican from Maine, voted against the measure, saying afterwards that passing the legislation would have sent the wrong message to Iran and US troops. "At this juncture, providing unequivocal support to our service members is critically important, as is ongoing consultation by the administration with Congress," she said. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer said before voting in favour of the measure: "Do you stand with the American people who are exhausted with forever wars in the Middle East or stand with Donald Trump and Pete Hegseth as they bumble us headfirst into another war?" The legislation will go to a vote on Thursday in the House of Representatives, where it faces an uphill slog. While the president has broad authority to launch military action without a formal declaration of war, Congress must be notified within 48 hours of hostilities beginning. Secretary of State Marco Rubio has maintained the Trump administration complied with that requirement. Top congressional leaders were notified before the initial strikes began, and Trump informed Congress in a letter on Monday, even as he maintained that was not necessary. Trump has previously ordered military operations without congressional approval, such as the US strikes against Iranian nuclear facilities last year, and the seizing of Venezuela's President Nicolás Maduro in January. "To begin with, no presidential administration has ever accepted the War Powers Act as constitutional – not Republican presidents, not Democratic presidents," Rubio, a former senator, said. Congress passed the War Powers Resolution in 1973 to constrain the ability of then-President Richard Nixon to wage war in Vietnam. It requires lawmakers to be notified by the president within 48 hours of military action and for Congress to pass an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) within 60 days of hostilities breaking out. Since 2001, US administrations have relied on the AUMF passed after the 11 September 2001 attacks as justification for the use of military force in the Middle East. Multiple attempts to repeal that authorisation have been unsuccessful. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump claims his country has a "virtually unlimited supply" of key weapons. Iran's defence ministry says it has "the capacity to resist the enemy" for longer than the US had planned. Weapons stocks and supplies alone will not decide the outcome of this conflict – Ukraine has long been outnumbered and outgunned by Russia – but it's certainly a significant factor. The tempo of operations has been high from the start. Both sides will already be using up weapons faster than they can be produced. The Tel Aviv-based Institute for National Security Studies (INSS) estimates that the US and Israel have already carried out more than 2,000 strikes, each involving multiple munitions. The INSS says Iran has already launched 571 missiles and 1,391 drones. Many will have been intercepted. For both sides, this level of combat will become harder to sustain the longer the war drags on. Western officials say they have already seen a decrease in the number of missiles Iran is firing – down from hundreds in the first day of the war to dozens now. Before the war, it was estimated that Iran had a stockpile of more than 2,000 short-range ballistic missiles. No military publishes precise numbers on how many weapons they have at their disposal, as such figures remain classified to keep adversaries in the dark. America's top commander, Gen Dan Caine, said on Wednesday that Iran's ballistic missile launches were down 86% from the first day of the fighting on Saturday. US Central Command (Centcom) says there's been a 23% decrease in just the last 24 hours. Iran was believed to have mass-produced tens of thousands of its Shahed one-way attack drones before the war. It's exported the technology to Russia – which has been using their version of the Shahed  to devastating effect in Ukraine. Even the US has copied the design. But Caine said Iran's drone launches had dropped by 73% since the first day of the conflict. Iran appears to be struggling to maintain a high tempo of operations. It is still possible this dramatic decline may be an attempt to preserve stockpiles – but maintaining production will only become harder. US and Israeli jets now have air supremacy over Iran. Most of Iran's air defences have been destroyed. It no longer has a credible air force. Centcom says the next phase of the war is focused on hunting down Iran's missile and drone launchers, its weapons stockpiles, and destroying the factories that produce them. It may now be easier for the US and Israel to degrade Iran's ability to fight. But it'll be difficult to destroy all its weapons stockpiles. Iran is a country three times the size of France. Weapons can still be hidden from the sky. Recent history also shows the limitations of wars fought from the air. Israel's military has still not destroyed Hamas in Gaza after two years of intensive bombing. Houthi rebels in Yemen survived a year-long US bombing campaign – as did some of their weapons. The US remains the world's most powerful military. Its conventional stockpiles will be deeper than any other country's. But the US military still largely relies on expensive precision-guided weapons that are produced in limited quantities. Trump is reported to have called a meeting with defence contractors later this week to press them to speed up production. It's an indication that even America's resources might be stretched. Some of the pressure may have eased now that the US has relative freedom to carry out strikes at close range. Caine said the US had already moved from using "stand-off weapons" – more costly and sophisticated long-range weapons such as Tomahawk cruise missiles. The US Air Force is now using less expensive "stand-in" weapons – like JDAM bombs – which can be dropped above a target. Mark Cancian, a former US Marine colonel with the Washington-based Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), says that, after the initial attack from a distance, the US "can now use less expensive missiles and bombs". He says the US could keep that level of fighting going on "almost indefinitely". The longer the war lasts, the list of targets also gets smaller – meaning a gradual slowing down in the tempo of operations. Mark Cancian says the US has tens of thousands of JDAM bombs – but expensive air defence systems are in shorter supply. In the initial stages of the conflict, those have been essential to defeating the threat from Iranian retaliatory attacks. Patriot missiles have been in high demand – not just from the US but also its Arab allies and Ukraine. Each interceptor missile costs more than $4m (£3m) and the US is believed to currently produce around 700 a year. If Iran is still able to launch ballistic missiles, it will eat into these limited stockpiles. CSIS expert Cancian estimates that the US may have stockpiles of around 1,600 Patriot missiles – which in recent days will have been depleted. While he says the US can keep the air-to-ground war going for a "long time", the air defence war is "more iffy". "If President Trump is willing to draw down on the number of Patriots, then I think we can outlast the Iranians – but it will come at a cost of risk in a potential Pacific conflict." The fact that Trump is set to meet US defence firms later this week is a sign that there is some concern about weapons stocks. But the US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth insists "Iran can't outlast us". On this, he's probably right. Correction 5 March: An earlier version of this story said Israel had bombed Hamas for more than three years. This has been changed to two years. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. A former US marine tells the BBC the priority of any recovery team would be to look for signs of life. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Pedro Sánchez has delivered a strong rebuttal to US President Donald Trump's threat to end trade with Spain by restating his opposition to war and what he called the "breakdown of international law". In a 10-minute televised address, the Spanish prime minister reflected on the wars in Ukraine and Gaza, as well as the Iraq War more than 20 years ago, and said the Spanish government's position could be summed up as "no to war". Trump threatened to impose a full trade embargo on Spain in response to its refusal to allow the US to use the jointly run bases at Morón and Rotafor to strike Iran. "Spain has been terrible," Trump said during a meeting with German Chancellor Friedrich Merz on Tuesday. "We're going to cut off all trade with Spain. We don't want anything to do with Spain," he added. Merz said later he had told Trump very clearly that he could not conclude a separate trade agreement with Germany or all of Europe but not with Spain. In response to the US economic threat, the Élysée Palace said French President Emmanuel Macron had conveyed his "solidarity" with Spain during a phone conversation with Sánchez on Wednesday. European Council President António Costa also said he had spoken to the Spanish leader "to express the EU's full solidarity". Trump accused Spain on Tuesday of being a "terrible partner" in Nato for failing to increase its defence budget in line with a target of 5% of economic output (GDP). Earlier this year, Sánchez drew Trump's ire by speaking out against the US military incursion into Venezuela. Sánchez said in his televised address from the prime minister's official residence in Madrid on Wednesday that the government was studying economic measures to counter the impact of the conflict on Spaniards, though he avoided directly referring to Trump's trade threat. "The question is not if we are on the side of the ayatollahs [Iran's clerical rulers] - nobody is. The question is whether we are in favour of peace and international legality," he said. "You cannot answer one illegality with another, because that is how the great catastrophes of humanity begin." Spain's Socialist prime minister explained that the government's position was comparable to its stance on Ukraine and Gaza. Sánchez has been a vociferous critic of Israel's military response to the Hamas attacks in 2023. Spain has been among Europe's most outspoken governments on Gaza, describing Israel's actions there as "genocide" and acknowledging a Palestinian state before many other EU members did. That position was in step with his coalition partners to his left and, broadly speaking, with Spanish attitudes toward the Middle East. Looking back to the invasion of Iraq in 2003, which he said had failed to achieve its goals and had made life worse for ordinary people, he warned that the attacks on Iran could have a similar economic impact for millions. His reference to the Iraq invasion will connect with many Spanish voters. Spain's support at the time from the conservative People's Party (PP) government was deeply unpopular, and triggered mass anti-war protests. Many believe it also lay the groundwork for the Socialist Party's surprise election victory in March 2004, days after Madrid had been hit by deadly jihadist bombings. Sánchez reminded Spaniards of the "Azores trio" - the then-US President George W Bush, the UK's Tony Blair and Spanish conservative leader José María Aznar - who had met on a Portuguese base in the region days before the Iraq invasion. He said they had handed Europeans the "gift" of "a more insecure world and worse life". The Spanish leader's stance contrasts strongly with that of Merz, who told German TV on Tuesday that regime change in Iran would leave the world "a little better off", though he also said this was "not without risk and we would also have to bear the consequences". Unlike Spain's fellow Nato allies - the UK, France and Greece - it has not yet committed to any military involvement in response to the war. White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said on Wednesday that Spain had "agreed to co-operate" with the US military after hearing Trump's message "loud and clear" - a claim Spanish foreign minister José Manuel Albares categorically denied, telling local media that his government's position "has not changed one iota". Aside from the fierce criticism Sánchez has faced from the US, his coalition government has faced months of enormous political pressure, generating constant speculation that its collapse could be imminent. It has been struggling to maintain its parliamentary majority, which includes an array of left-wing and regional nationalist parties. Allegations of corruption against several of his allies and inner circle have severely weakened his position. In Spain's deeply polarised politics, much of the support for Sánchez is driven as much by concerns about the country's right and far-right as it is by endorsement of his leadership and policies. Standing up to the US president may have electoral benefits for the Socialist leader. A recent poll by the CIS research institute found that 77% of Spaniards had a "bad" or "very bad" opinion of Trump, suggesting that even many right-wing voters may back Sánchez on this issue. However, there is now uncertainty in Spain over whether Trump's threats will translate into some form of economic reprisals, and many Spaniards will be watching this drama nervously. Correction 4 March 2026: A previous version of this story described an airbase in the Azores as Spanish. This has now been amended to say it is Portuguese. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
UK and US stock markets rose but Asian indexes tumbled on Wednesday as oil and gas prices remained volatile over fears the US-Israel war with Iran may drag on. The FTSE 100 index of the largest firms listed in London as well the big US and European indexes all rose on Wednesday following two days of sliding share prices, while several Asian indexes plummeted for a third day. Oil and gas prices dipped on Wednesday but were still much higher than when the conflict started, after shipping traffic was virtually halted from travelling through a vital waterway near Iran. Experts have warned that if oil and gas prices remain elevated it could make goods and services more expensive. David Miles, committee member at the Office for Budget Responsibility, the government's independent forecaster, said the rate of inflation will increase in the UK if oil and gas prices stay high for a sustained period of time. However, he said it was important to note the increases in both were "nowhere near as large" as those seen after Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine four years ago. "If prices stayed where they were at the moment, probably we're talking about an impact on the level of prices in the UK maybe of 1% or so," Miles told the BBC's Today programme. Brent crude prices have jumped by 12% since Israel and the US began bombing Iran on Saturday and Tehran responded by attacking neighbouring Arab countries. On Wednesday, Saudi Arabia's defence ministry reported an attempted drone attack on its Ras Tanura oil refinery, the second time this week it has been targeted. At the same time, one of the biggest producers in the world state-run QatarEnergy suspended production of Liquified Natural Gas (LNG). The benchmark UK gas price has surged to over 60% since the conflict began. It closed at 128p per therm by the end of trading on Wednesday, below Tuesday's high of 170p. Around a fifth of the world's oil and gas usually flows through the Strait of Hormuz, a narrow waterway between Iran and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). But traffic through the Strait of Hormuz has almost entirely halted following Iran's threats to "set fire" to ships. According to Lloyd's List Intelligence, about 200 tankers have been effectively stranded, while insurance premiums – particularly on vessels considered American, British or Israeli – have risen significantly. On Tuesday, President Donald Trump said the US would provide risk insurance "at a very reasonable price" and use the Navy to protect oil tankers "if necessary". However, experts warned his assurances might not be enough to ease companies' concerns, and the president did not detail how an escort through the strait would work. Lindsay James, investment strategist at wealth management firm Quilter, told the BBC she believed markets had taken an "optimistic view" of the situation, because in reality Iran was well equipped to repel any ships using the strait. "Shipping companies, insurers, crew members, potentially, are probably going to be reluctant to do this… It's not really feasible to think that that is going to be the solution to reopening energy supplies," she said. "The solution is going to be a peace agreement, and it feels like we're some way away from that." US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said on Wednesday that crude oil markets "are very well supplied". Stock markets have fallen sharply since the US and Israel attacked Iran over the weekend, and many Asian stock markets have been hit particularly hard as the region imports large amounts of energy from the Middle East. South Korea and Thailand stock markets were forced to temporarily halt trading after plunging by more than 8% and triggering so-called circuit breakers, which aim to avoid panic-selling. James Hosie, oil and gas equity analyst at Shore Capital said roughly 80% of Qatar's LNG goes to Asian markets. "Those consumers will now be bidding up the price of LNG cargoes to secure alternative supplies, as is now being seen with the spike in Asian LNG prices," he said. "There obviously is a knock-on effect to the price of gas elsewhere, including the UK, where LNG helps balance demand with supply." In the UK, Chancellor Rachel Reeves is set to meet with North Sea energy bosses on Wednesday afternoon to discuss the implications of the Middle East conflict "and work with them to manage this uncertain period". Quilter's James told the BBC that investors are forecasting higher inflation in the UK "and that could take one of the interest cuts that was pencilled in off the table". Markets had projected that the Bank of England could cut interest rate twice this year as inflation eased. The National Institute of Economic and Social Research, an economic think tank, said if higher energy prices persist, it could force the Bank of England to push interest rates back up, above 4%. The Bank of England will announce its latest interest rate decision on 19 March. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Authorities in Iran have postponed the funeral ceremony for the late Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, as US and Israeli forces continue intense strikes across the country. An official said there had been many requests from people wanting to attend the three-day event at a Tehran prayer complex and that infrastructure needed to be prepared. It had been due to begin on Wednesday night. A member of the Assembly of Experts meanwhile said the clerical body was "close" to choosing a successor to Khamenei, who was killed in a strike at the start of the US and Israeli assault on Saturday. Iran has responded by launching missiles and drones at Israel and Gulf states with US bases. Kuwait's health ministry said overnight that a girl had been killed by shrapnel that fell on a residential area during an Iranian attack. Meanwhile, US Secretary of Defence Pete Hegseth said a US submarine sank an Iranian navy frigate in the Indian Ocean off the coast of Sri Lanka. "[The warship] thought it was safe in international waters. Instead, it was sunk by a torpedo. Quiet death," he told reporters. Sri Lanka's Defence Secretary Air Vice Marshal Sampath Thuyyakontha said the bodies of 80 people on board the Iris Dena had been recovered. Another 32 people have been rescued, while dozens more are missing. Hegseth also said that US and Israeli forces would have total aerial superiority over Iran within days and would "soon" control the country. "This was never meant to be a fair fight, and it is not a fair fight. We are punching them while they're down," he declared. The secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council, Ali Larijani, said US President Donald Trump had "dragged the American people into an unjust war". Khamenei - who was Iran's spiritual leader and its highest authority - was killed at his compound in Tehran in the first wave of US and Israeli strikes, along with his wife, one of their adult sons, and several top officials. The three-day funeral ceremony for the 86-year-old cleric had been due to start at 22:00 local time (18:30 GMT) on Wednesday, with mourners invited to pay their respects as he lay in state at the capital's Grand Mosalla prayer complex. But on Wednesday morning, the head of the Islamic Propaganda Co-ordination Council of Tehran province told the hardline Tasnim news agency that it had been decided to postpone the ceremony until "a more appropriate time". Seyyed Mohsen Mahmoudi said this was because of "the high volume of requests to attend this ceremony and the need to provide appropriate facilities to host the people". Following Khamenei's assassination, state media showed crowds of the Islamic Republic's supporters protesting in Tehran against the US and Israeli attacks. But social media videos also showed opponents celebrating on the streets in the capital and other cities. Khamenei became supreme leader in 1989 after the death of the Islamic Republic's founding father, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. He maintained a firm grip on Iran's politics and its armed forces, and suppressed challenges to the ruling system, sometimes violently. Many people called for his overthrow or his death during nationwide protests in late December and early January. Security forces under his command crushed the uprising with unprecedented force, killing at least 6,480 people, according to human rights groups. Iran's new supreme leader is supposed to be chosen by the Assembly of Experts. The clerical body's 88 members are elected by Iranians every eight years, but Khamenei ensured they were conservatives who would follow his guidance on picking a successor. One member, Ayatollah Ahmad Khatami, told state TV that the candidates had already been identified but did not name them. "The supreme leader will be identified in the closest opportunity, we are close to a conclusion. However, the situation in the country is a war situation," he said. Two Iranian sources told news agency Reuters that another of Khamenei's sons, Mojtaba, was considered the front-runner to succeed him. Mojtaba, a 56-year-old cleric, is a shadowy figure said to have amassed significant power and wealth under his father's rule. He is close to conservatives and the powerful Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), which is tasked with defending the country's Islamic system. Israel's defence minister said any successor who continued to threaten Israel and the US would be "an unequivocal target for elimination". The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) meanwhile announced that its had carried out several waves of strikes across Iran on Wednesday. A military official said more than 100 Israeli fighter jets had dropped about 250 munitions on a military compound containing multiple command centres in eastern Tehran. The IDF also said it had struck ballistic missile arrays and air defence systems, as well as a missile storage and production facility, and "defence and detection systems" at Tehran's Mehrabad airport. It added that an Israeli F-35 fighter jet shot down an Iranian Yak-130 over Tehran, describing it as "the first shootdown in history of a manned fighter aircraft by an F-35". There was no immediate comment from Iranian authorities. On Tuesday night, the head of the US military's Central Command, Adm Brad Cooper, said the US-Israeli campaign was "ahead of our game plan". "In simple terms, we're focused on shooting things that can shoot us," he added. Iran's state news agency Irna reported on Wednesday that US and Israeli strikes had killed 1,045 military personnel and civilians since the start of the conflict. It was not immediately possible to verify the figures, but the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRNA) said overnight that the number of reported civilian deaths had reached 1,097, including 181 children under the age of 10. Iran's armed forces have responded to the strikes by launching hundreds of missiles and drones at Israel and neighbouring Arab states that host US military installations. Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian told neighbouring states that the US-Israeli attack had "left us no choice but to defend ourselves" after diplomacy had failed. "We respect your sovereignty and believe the region's security and stability has to be achieved through the collective efforts of its states." It came after Qatar's Prime Minister, Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdul Rahman Al Thani, told Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi in a phone call that Iran was seeking to harm its neighbours and draw them into a war "that is not theirs", according to the Qatari government. Thani also "categorically rejected" Araghchi's assertion that the missiles were directed solely at US interests, citing the strikes on civilian infrastructure and residential areas. Early on Wednesday, Kuwait's health ministry said an 11-year-old girl, who was a resident of the country, had died after being hit by falling shrapnel. Nine other people - six US service personnel, two Kuwaiti army soldiers, and one other civilian - have been killed in Kuwait since the start of the conflict. Authorities in Saudi Arabia said there had been an attempted drone attack on its largest oil refinery, Ras Tanura, on the Gulf coast. No damage or disruption had been reported, it added. On Monday, the refinery was forced to halt some operations after a drone attack caused a fire. Turkey's defence ministry also said an Iranian missile heading towards its airspace had been intercepted by Nato air and missile defence systems in the Eastern Mediterranean. And in Qatar, the State Security Service announced the arrest of 10 members of two cells allegedly linked to the IRGC, which it said had been tasked with spying on infrastructure and carrying out "sabotage operations". The IDF also said its defence systems had operated to intercept more salvos of Iranian missiles. There were no immediate reports of any casualties. A total of 10 people have been killed in missile strikes in Israel over the past five days. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A wave of US and Israeli strikes has destroyed or damaged at least 11 Iranian naval vessels since Saturday, new satellite images reviewed by BBC Verify show, with missile bases and nuclear sites also hit by attacks. Images of the southern Konarak naval base and the Bandar Abbas facility, which sits on the Strait of Hormuz and houses the headquarters of the Iranian navy, show smoke billowing from multiple ships on Monday and Tuesday. US President Donald Trump said on Monday that the US was "annihilating" the Iranian navy, listing the force's destruction as one of America's three main goals. His Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth confirmed that a US submarine had fired on an Iranian warship in the Indian Ocean on Wednesday. Among the vessels destroyed was the IRINS Makran, Iran's largest naval vessel, which had served as a drone carrier. Satellite images showed black smoke pouring from the ship which had been docked at Bandar Abbas base. Maritime security firm Vanguard said that the IRIS Bayandor, IRIS Naghdi, and the IRIS Jamaran were also among the ships destroyed in the strikes. The firm also claimed that the IRIS Shahid Bagheri, a state-of-the-art drone carrier ship launched by Iran last year, had been sunk - although BBC Verify cannot independently confirm this. Analysts at the intelligence firm MAIAR said at least five ships at Bandar Abbas were "hit or sunk". Satellite images of the southern end of the port show smoke rising from Makran, while two other vessels appear to be damaged, one visibly ablaze. At Konarak, images show multiple damaged vessels, with MAIAR telling BBC Verify that they had identified damage to six vessels. The photos taken on Monday show that multiple buildings at the base have also been demolished. The head of US Central Command (Centcom), which oversees American military operations in the Middle East, claimed that 17 Iranian vessels, including its "most operational" submarine, have been destroyed. "For decades the Iranian regime has harassed international shipping," Adm Brad Cooper said in a video posted to X. "Today, there is not a single Iranian vessel underway in the Arabian Gulf, Strait of Hormuz or Gulf of Oman, and we will not stop." Some vessels reportedly destroyed may have been obscured in satellite images by cloud or smoke, or struck at sea, and have not been independently verified by BBC Verify. Sri Lankan officials said on Wednesday that one Iranian ship was sinking near its waters and that it launched a rescue operation, with 140 people currently missing. US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth later said that a US submarine struck an Iranian ship with a torpedo in the Indian Ocean. Vice-Admiral Mark Mellett, ex-head of the Irish military, told BBC Verify that the US and Israeli attacks appeared to have "largely neutralised for now or at least suppressed" the Iranian navy's ability to sustain conventional attacks using its biggest warships. But he emphasised that Iran retains the ability to launch unconventional attacks at sea through the use of drones, mini-submarines and shadow fleet vessels - a network of tankers sailing under obscured ownership. MAIAR analysts also told BBC Verify that Tehran could turn to smaller, fast-attack vessels armed with anti-ship missiles in the coming days as Iran's largest warships continue to be targeted by US and Israeli strikes. Iran also has the ability to disrupt commercial shipping, with Mellett observing that it could plant mines in key shipping lanes in the Strait of Hormuz or launch drone attacks on tankers and key ports. President Trump listed the destruction of Iranian missile bases and the prevention of nuclear weapons development as the other objectives of the American air campaign. In his statement on Tuesday night, Adm Cooper said that hundreds of air defence sites, ballistic missiles and drones had been destroyed by US strikes. Satellite images also showed damage at the southern Khorgu and north-western Tabriz missile bases, and at the Konarak air base, missile storage facilities and bunkers were hit. At the Choqa Balk-e drone base west of Kermanshah, extensive damage was seen to storage buildings, bunkers and drone launch equipment. Destruction was also seen to a radar installation at the Zahedan airbase in eastern Iran, near the border with Afghanistan and Pakistan. Satellite images show that the latest wave of strikes have targeted facilities at Natanz - long said to be at the heart of Iran's nuclear programme and which were both targeted by the US last year. Following those attacks last summer Iran denied Trump's claims that the US had "obliterated" the nuclear sites. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said the buildings were used for pedestrian and vehicular access to the site's underground enrichment facility and that "no radiological consequence" was expected as a result of the damage. The total scale of the damage caused to Iranian military facilities remains unclear, with strikes continuing on Tuesday night and Israeli attacks targeting what it called "security headquarters" in the capital Tehran. The Institute for the Study of War (ISW) said that the "decrease in Iranian missile attacks against Israel and the UAE strongly suggests that the effort to destroy ballistic missile launchers has had considerable success". Imagery shows extensive damage to the headquarters of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). Pictures captured by intelligence firm Vantor on 3 March shows damage to at least six structures. There are also signs of damage at the National Defence University and Intelligence Ministry. Gen Jospeh Vettel, ex-head of Centcom, told the BBC that many strikes had targeted Iran's "internal security apparatus" and sought to degrade "the ability of the regime to control the population". A large number of civilian buildings also appear to have been hit in the capital and across Iran since the conflict began on 28 February. At least 160 people, including children, were reported killed after a school in Minab in southern Iran was hit, according to Iranian officials. The US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) says 1,097 civilians have been reported killed since Saturday. BBC Verify will continue to monitor satellite images as the situation develops. Additional reporting by Thomas Spencer. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iranians living and working in Oxford say they are "worried sick" about their friends and family members amid the ongoing conflict in the Middle East. Israeli and US forces launched air strikes on Iran over the weekend - killing the country's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, alongside more than 1,000 Iranian civilians. In retaliation, Iran has responded by conducting aerial attacks on sites across the region - including in the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. Hosnieh Djafari-Marbini, who came to the UK as a refugee from Iran at the age of 13, said the situation was "heartbreaking". "I'm worried sick about friends, family and loved ones," the NHS doctor, and Oxford city councillor, said. "Practically speaking, we are struggling to get through to loved ones who have had to flee Tehran," she said. The US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRANA) said on Wednesday that 1,097 civilians have been reported killed in Iran since 28 February. Of those, 181 were children under the age of 10 years old, the agency said. "It's heartbreaking because I know that this won't make things better, it will just make things worse," Djafari-Marbini said. "I know from speaking to NHS colleagues, most residents think this is utterly madness and it's only going to make things worse." The US and Israel attacked Iran on Saturday in what they called "pre-emptive strikes". Both countries claimed Iran was trying to rebuild its nuclear programme and develop missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons, following targeted strikes last year by Israeli and US forces. US president Donald Trump said these missiles could eventually reach the US, though this has not been supported by US intelligence assessments. The US and Iran began negotiations and appeared to be making progress until Trump said he was "not happy" with the way the talks were going. Hours later the US and Israel began attacking. Iran has since described the attacks as "unprovoked, illegal and illegitimate", and has carried out widespread missile and drone attacks in response. Trump declared on Tuesday that Iran's air defences, air force, navy and leadership were "gone". "We've had a very powerful impact. Virtually everything they had has been knocked out now. Their missile count is going down," he said. Masood Khanloo left Iran 27 years ago, and said he had thought about flying the Persian flag - which was used before the 1979 Islamic Revolution - in his restaurant on the Cowley Road. He said: "I put the flag up this weekend and two of my friends said [to me] 'there are many people who do not like to see this flag'. "In a friendly way, they said it's better to remove it - I just wanted to know what people in Oxford think about it." He said that many people hoped that the death of the supreme leader "could lead to significant changes in the region and contribute to a more peaceful future". "All around the world, they [Iranians] are happy that the terrorist regime is going after 47 years," he added. Prime Minister Keir Starmer came under pressure from Trump after he delayed the approval of plans for US forces to use two British bases for the military action. Responding to that move, Iran launched attacks against a British base in Cyprus - with Starmer announcing on Tuesday that a Royal Navy warship would be deployed to the eastern Mediterranean to bolster security around RAF Akrotiri. You can follow BBC Oxfordshire on Facebook, X (Twitter), or Instagram. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The Crown Estate is a partner in the project, which will use the Debenhams store that shut in 2021. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A 12-year-old boy who spent three nights alone in an airport due to travel restrictions caused by the US-Israel war with Iran says he is "so happy" to be home. Ahmad, from Swindon in Wiltshire, became stranded at Dubai Airport while travelling back from Pakistan during the military activity in the Middle East. It comes as other passengers from the UK say they have received "no information" from the Foreign Office, despite following the proper protocols. UK Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper said the government was "working 247 with airlines and regional governments to pursue extra flights and safe routes" out of the Middle East. Ahmed was cared for by Emirates Airlines staff while he waited to be reunited with family. His mother, Hafsa, father, Shamshed, and younger sister, Noor, eight, tearfully greeted him at the arrivals gate on Tuesday. "When we realised he would be delayed in Dubai it was terrifying and we were looking at the news and social media to see what was going on," his mother explained. "It was very terrible for us because he is only 12 years old and he was alone. I can't express my feelings." Ahmed added he was "so happy" to be home following the "terrible" ordeal. Ian Scott, from Wedmore in Somerset, has been stuck in Qatar since Saturday after his connecting flight was diverted back to the airport due to air space closures. He had been due to fly from Melbourne in Australia to Venice in Italy, via Doha, on Saturday to meet his wife. After his Venice-bound flight landed back in Doha, Scott spent 15 hours in the airport surrounded by explosions as missiles from Iran were intercepted. Eventually, staff evacuated the airport and thousands of stranded passengers were transported to hotels where they have remained, awaiting news of their departure. Although Scott registered his presence in Qatar with the FCDO, he said the British government had offered "no information" to stranded passengers. "We have no plan, no idea how we're going to get out at the moment and we're sort of just stuck here," he added. Salon owner Klaudia Lawrence flew out to Dubai for a holiday last week. She was due to return home to Oldland Common near Bristol yesterday, but is stranded abroad due to the ongoing conflict. She registered her presence the United Arab Emirates on Saturday, and was advised to follow local guidance and to contact her travel agency and airline. "We're constantly on phones trying to find a way out," she told BBC Radio Bristol. "It could literally be weeks - we have no idea. We don't have a flight home. "The hardest part for me personally is knowing that I'm not in control of this situation. Not knowing what tomorrow will bring is very, very scary." Cooper told the BBC there were an estimated 300,000 British citizens in Gulf countries, where much of the air space is closed. She said many of those stranded were holidaymakers, passengers transiting through or people on business trips. In a statement posted on X, Cooper said: "The safety and security of British nationals is our top priority. "Due to ongoing air strikes and safety restrictions, the situation on the ground is likely to remain challenging for some time." She added that limited commercial flights had restarted from the United Arab Emirates and a chartered plane prioritising the "most vulnerable" passengers would also fly from Oman later. Stranded Britons have been urged to follow local advice, keep in touch with their airlines and to register their presence in the Middle East with the UK government, as Iranian strikes continue across the region. A total of 102,000 Britons have registered so far, according to the government. Johnny Whittaker, from Bristol, was due to fly out of Dubai for a holiday on Saturday but his flight was cancelled due to restrictions. Although he has seen fewer missiles above the city compared to the weekend, Whittaker said he still felt worried and would return to the UK if he could. "My concern is at the moment it doesn't seem that bad, but you don't know how long these things are going to last," he said. Whittaker said he had registered his presence in Dubai with the UK government, but had only received one email advising him to "stay safe" and "stay inside". The FCDO advised travellers planning to head to the Middle East to check its website for travel advice relating to their destination. Follow BBC Somerset on Facebook and X. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. Nitesh Nitesh, of Byron Street in Redfield, will appear at Bristol Magistrates' Court on Monday. A charity says the building is in a "dangerous condition" and "beyond rescuing". Bristol have to regroup after Champions Cup exit and Prem losses says director of rugby Pat Lam, as injury concerns also mount. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Iranians living in the north-east of England have described the crisis in the Middle East as "not a war, it is a rescue operation". Newcastle-based Samira Dehghanazad, 40, who fled Iran in 2022 for her safety, was hopeful the killing of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei could bring lasting change to her nation. Following a recent crackdown on protests which saw thousands of people killed, she believed the intervention was justified and hoped it carried on "until the whole regime is gone". Meanwhile, Yasmin, not her real name, who lives on Teesside and has family living in the North of Iran, said her relations were scared but "hopeful of a better future". Hundreds of people have been killed in the recent conflict, which has spread across the Middle East following US and Israeli strikes on Iran and its subsequent retaliation. The regime, which came to power after overthrowing the country's unpopular monarchy in 1979, has a poor reputation for human rights. Dehghanazad, who has lived in Newcastle for two years with her husband and son, was among members of the Iranian diaspora in the UK who celebrated Khamenei's death, despite the complex emotions the war has stirred. Dehghanazad told the Local Democracy Reporting Service: "From our point of view now, this is not an attack, it is not an assault, it is not a war - it is a rescue operation from most Iranians' point of view." She was deputy manager of a school in Iran but said she was forced to flee after being targeted for helping students who were protesting against the government in 2022. She does not know where her parents are or whether they are safe, as she has been unable to contact them since Saturday. Shahrad, an Iranian man also living in Newcastle, shared the sentiment and said the population had been "like a hostage" to the regime. Of the killing of Khamenei, he told BBC Radio Newcastle, it had been "our dream for ages". Yasmin told BBC Radio Tees that she was "very worried" for her family. Her cousin in the country told her: "We are scared because our houses are shaking because of the waves of the bombs but we are very hopeful of a better future." Follow BBC North East on X, Facebook, Nextdoor and Instagram. Metro operator Nexus is warning customers that morning journeys on Easter Monday will be affected. How much do you remember about the stories making the headlines across the North East and Cumbria? Ammar Yusuf Mirza says he will work to improve inclusion across Tyne and Wear after his appointment. Plans for the Forth Goods Yard, near Central Station, include 500 homes and a car park. Fusion Lifestyle, which operates Newcastle's City Baths, is placed into administration. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Americans travelling in the Middle East say it has been "mayhem" trying to get back home as the US-Israel war with Iran is felt throughout the region. The US is advising its citizens in 14 countries, including Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Israel and Qatar, to "depart now" as security warnings put embassies on lock down. Canada has also urged its citizen to leave. But some tourists report that there are no flights and no clear instructions to exit. The US state department said it was securing military and charter planes to pick up American citizens who want to leave the Middle East. For now, though, many travellers say they are being forced to wait or find their own way out. An advisory posted on Monday urges Americans to "depart now via commercial means" from Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, the occupied West Bank and Gaza, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, United Arab Emirates and Yemen. But leaving by commercial airline has proved tough for many travellers. Florida resident Krista Jucknath Hickman said she and her husband Mike's holiday turned to "chaos" when they became stranded at Dubai airport. "The number provided by the state department for support is unable to help," she said. "I called twice." She added: "All that can be done is book flights that don't take off." The couple eventually managed to book a driver for $1,000 to take them across the border into Oman. State department spokesperson Dylan Johnson said the government was currently in contact with 3,000 travellers. Some 9,000 Americans have already successfully returned to the US from the region over the last few days, according to the department. The statement said that charter flights would soon be available to evacuate Americans from the UAE, Saudi Arabia and Jordan. On his social media site on Tuesday, President Donald Trump encouraged Americans trying to get home to register online with the state department. "We are already chartering flights, free of charge, and booking commercial options, which we expect will become increasingly available as time goes on," he said. Another US citizen, former Army Major General Randy Manner, said he was still trying to make it out of the airport in Dubai, which he described as "mayhem". "We started to load the aircraft then we were all taken back to the terminal," he said. "They also said that if we fly out at all, we would be the last plane out tonight." Between 500,000 and one million US nationals are estimated to be living in the Middle East. Texas resident Harsheet Kummaraguntla said his mother was on a flight from Doha, Qatar, to Dallas when the US and Israel first struck Iran. The flight ended up turning back and landing in Doha again. "She does not live there, Doha was just a layover. She is unfortunately trapped currently due to the airspace closure in Doha," Kummaraguntla said. Greg Arnold, 33, from Buffalo, New York, is a consultant living in Riyadh with his wife and son. His parents had been visiting from the US, and arrived three weeks before the war began. He described how difficult it was to book them flights home online. "The price kept going up and up," he said. "So if you had a payment failure, you check again and it would raise, you know, another $300 to $500." He was eventually able to secure tickets through his company. Canada has also urged its citizens to avoid travel to in the region, and estimates more than 85,000 are registered across the various countries. On Tuesday, Canada's foreign minister, Anita Anand, said Ottawa had asked Oman for access to its airspace if needed to help evacuate its citizens. Nathan Devereaux, of Brantford, Ontario, has worked at an NGO in Shatila refugee camp in Beirut for the past year and a half. Israel's military has been striking Hezbollah targets in Lebanon, after the Iranian-backed Shia group said it launched rockets and drones at the Israeli city of Haifa to avenge the US killing of Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Devereaux, 24, said the entire country could quickly be engulfed in violence. He and his girlfriend have a flight booked out of Lebanon in a few days. He has been agonising over whether he should leave altogether. "Where the hell would I go?" he said. "Would I go all the way back to Canada, which is going to cost me a ton of money? And you know, when am I going to come back?" You can also get in touch by following this link. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Cornwall's Chamber of Commerce president says the route generated most of the airport's revenue. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Donald Trump has told lawmakers it is not yet possible to know the "full scope and duration" of US strikes on Iran. In a letter notifying Congress of the military action, Trump said the threat from Iran had been "untenable" despite efforts to find a diplomatic solution. But lawmakers said they were unclear of Trump's plans after receiving a classified briefing from top officials about the strikes, on the eve of a vote on a war powers resolution that could limit the president's actions. The US and Israel began striking Iran on Saturday. Iran responded by firing missiles and drones at Israel and Gulf states allied to the US. In the letter, Trump told Senate President Pro Tempore Chuck Grassley that Iran "remains one of the largest, if not the largest, state-sponsors of terrorism in the world". He said it "continues to seek the means to possess and employ nuclear weapons". "Its array of ballistic, cruise, anti-ship and other missiles pose a direct threat to and are attacking US forces, commercial vessels and civilians, as well as those of our allies and partners," the letter added. The president said no US ground forces had been committed to the operation. Democratic lawmakers - and a handful of Republicans - have questioned whether Trump exceeded his powers in launching strikes without congressional approval. Many have supported efforts to limit Trump's ability to take further action in Iran. Members of Congress attended a classified briefing on Tuesday from Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth and others. While the president has broad authority to launch military action without a formal declaration of war, Congress, by law, must be notified within 48 hours of hostilities beginning. Trump has previously conducted military operations without congressional approval, such as the US strikes against Iranian nuclear facilities last year, and the operation to seize Venezuela's President Nicolás Maduro in January. House of Representatives Speaker Mike Johnson, a Republican, said the Trump administration had notified the so-called gang of eight - a bipartisan group of congressional leaders - ahead of the strikes in Iran and that Rubio had briefed those lawmakers within the required time frame. "We've complied with the law 100% and we're going to continue to comply with it," America's top diplomat said. The secretary of state has also said "there's no law that requires the president to have done anything with regards to this". "To begin with, no presidential administration has ever accepted the War Powers Act as constitutional – not Republican presidents, not Democratic presidents," he added. After listening to the Trump administration briefing, Speaker Johnson said Trump acted "fully within his authority under the law" and consistent with precedent. "Efforts now to restrict the commander in chief from completing this limited but crucial mission would be both dangerous and irresponsible," the Louisiana congressman said. But some lawmakers were unconvinced. "This is as serious as it gets," Senator Chris Murphy, a Democrat from Connecticut, said after Tuesday's briefing. "They told us in that room that there were going to be more Americans that were going to die. "We have to have a debate in the United States senate on the authorisation of military force." Other lawmakers said afterwards they felt in the dark as to how long the conflict might last, what the objectives were, and whether the US military could become bogged down. Senator Richard Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat, said: "I am more fearful than ever after this briefing that we may be putting boots on the ground." Senator Brian Schatz, a Democrat from Hawaii, said he was also confused. "There are times when you go into a classified session and you walk out with a better understanding about the rationale behind the military action," he said. "This is not one of those times. We remain as confused as the American people are." Some lawmakers indicated they might not support the war powers resolution for now, but might change course if the war continues past the four- or five-week duration that Trump has mentioned. The vote in the Senate, expected on Wednesday, could be close as a handful of Republicans said they were not sure how they would vote. A majority of Democrats are expected to back the measure. In the House, there is more bipartisan support for the war powers measure and Republicans have an even narrower majority. Their vote is expected on Thursday. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Gulf states have found themselves on the front line of the Middle East's newest war, and they are angry. Iran has retaliated to US-Israeli air strikes by firing hundreds of missiles and drones at its Arab neighbours – targeting American military bases on their soil, but also civilian and energy infrastructure. In doing so it is targeting the Gulf's image as a safe, prosperous hub for travel, tourism and finance, and disrupting the oil and gas industry at its core. This is a war that the Arab governments didn't want and tried to prevent. The question is whether they'll be drawn into it by what they've called the "treacherous" Iranian attacks. "All the red lines have already been crossed," said Qatar's foreign ministry spokesman Majed al Ansari at a press briefing on Tuesday. "The attacks on our sovereignty are constant," he told journalists. "There are attacks on infrastructure. There are attacks on our residential areas. And the effects of these attacks are very clear. When it comes to possible retaliation, all options are with our leadership. But we have to make it very clear that attacks like these will not go unanswered and cannot go unanswered." Mostly the Iranian missiles are being intercepted across the region, but falling debris has started fires and killed people. Drones that are more easily able to get through air defences often cause minimal damage but still sow chaos that disrupts trade and travel. That seems to be the Iranian strategy – to raise the stakes for its Arab neighbours in hopes they will increase pressure on the US to end the war. Iran is believed to have fired almost as many drones and missiles at the United Arab Emirates, the gulf's dominant trade and tourism hub, as Israel, according to the Financial Times. Iran can weaponise the region's vital oil and gas industry – disrupting that could send shockwaves through the global economy. That also means Tehran's strategy could backfire. Iran risks pushing Gulf states closer to Washington, even having them join the war effort in some form. So far, they've refused to let the US use their skies and territory to launch strikes on Iran. That could change. At some point, they might decide to participate in military operations. They're not there yet – for now the Arabs are focused on defence. But much depends on how long the war goes on. Some would be reluctant to appear to be taking Israel's side in the conflict. Israel's deadly and destructive offensive in Gaza in response to the Hamas attacks of October 2023, as well as its military interventions in countries such as Lebanon and Syria, has increasingly strained relations with the Arabs. They were furious when it bombed Qatar last year in an attempt to assassinate Hamas leadership. What's clear is that Iran's attacks have strengthened unity among the Gulf states The six members of the Gulf Cooperation Council – Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and Oman – met in emergency session on Sunday to express solidarity and pledge to "take all necessary measures to defend their security and stability and to protect their territories, citizens, and residents, including the option of responding to the aggression." A senior diplomatic advisor to the Emirati president, Anwar Gargash, has urged Iran to come to its senses. "Your war is not with your neighbours," he wrote in a post on X. "Return to your surroundings, and deal with your neighbours with reason and responsibility before the circle of isolation and escalation widens." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US and Israel have bombed targets across Iran for a fourth day, as President Donald Trump declared that the country's air defences, air force, navy and leadership were "gone". The Israeli military said it had struck Iran's presidential office, a covert nuclear compound, and a Revolutionary Guards commander in Tehran, while the US military said it had destroyed command facilities, missile launch sites and airfields. Iranian authorities did not comment. But explosions were reported across Iran, where the Red Crescent has said 780 people have been killed since Saturday. Iran has responded to the strikes by launching deadly missile and drone attacks on Israel and Gulf states hosting US bases. A drone hit a car park adjacent to the US consulate in Dubai on Tuesday evening and "set off a fire in that place", US Secretary of State Marco Rubio said. It came hours after two drones hit the US embassy in Saudi Arabia's capital Riyadh and caused a "limited fire", according to the Saudi defence ministry. The US and Israel launched a joint attack on Iran on Saturday, killing Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and senior officials in the first wave of strikes. Trump has said the US is seeking to destroy Iran's ballistic missile capabilities and navy, its ability to develop nuclear weapons, and its support for proxy groups in the region. He has also urged Iranians to use the attack to "take back your government". At the White House on Tuesday, the president said: "We've had a very powerful impact. Virtually everything they had has been knocked out now. Their missile count is going down." Trump also repeated a claim that 49 Iranian leaders were "taken out" on Saturday and said there was "another hit today on the new leadership", without giving any details. When asked by a reporter who he would like to take over after the conflict, Trump replied: "Most of the people we had in mind are dead." Not long afterwards, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) put out a statement saying an air strike in Tehran had killed the temporary commander of the Lebanon Corps of the Quds Force, the IRGC's overseas operations arm. It named the officer as Daoud Alizadeh and said he had recently pushed the Iran-backed Lebanese group Hezbollah to attack Israel. The IDF has carried out dozens of strikes in Lebanon since Monday, when Hezbollah launched rockets and drones over the border. The IDF also said it had struck a covert compound on the outskirts of Tehran where it alleged a group of scientists working for the defence ministry had "operated to develop necessary capabilities for nuclear weapons". There was no immediate comment from Iranian authorities, but they have repeatedly insisted that the country's nuclear programme is entirely peaceful and that it is not seeking to develop nuclear weapons. The global nuclear watchdog, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), said separately that satellite imagery had allowed it to confirm "some recent damage" to entrance buildings at Iran's underground Natanz Fuel Enrichment Plant. "No radiological consequence expected and no additional impact detected at FEP itself," it added. The Atomic Energy Organisation of Iran (AEOI) also said there had been no recorded release of radioactive material at Natanz following what it called the "criminal attack". Natanz was severely damaged in a US strike during the 12-day war between Iran and Israel last June, and enriched uranium is believed to be buried underground. Enriched uranium can be used to make reactor fuel but also nuclear weapons. Neither the US nor Israel have said they struck Natanz in recent days. Earlier on Tuesday, the IDF said it had dropped bombs overnight on the presidential office and the Supreme National Security Council's building in Tehran. "This compound serves as the most central and significant headquarters of the Iranian terrorist regime. Its strike further degrades the functional continuity of the regime's command and control systems," the IDF added. Satellite images later released by Vantor showed extensive damage to the presidential office and other major political and military sites, including the judiciary complex, the ministry of intelligence, a building owned by state broadcaster IRIB, and the IRGC's headquarters. The US military's Central Command said its forces had destroyed IRGC command-and-control facilities, air defence capabilities, missile and drone launch sites, and military airfields. The office of the clerical body charged with choosing Khamenei's successor as supreme leader, the Assembly of Experts, was also bombed in the central city of Qom on Tuesday, Iranian media reported. Two videos verified by the BBC showed that the building was almost completely destroyed. A nearby building was also heavily damaged. IRIB said the buildings had been evacuated beforehand and no casualties were reported. The Iranian army said 13 personnel were killed in a missile attack on an army aviation base in the south-eastern province of Kerman, according to the hardline Tasnim news agency. The Iranian Red Crescent said on Tuesday that at least 787 people had been killed in the country over the past four days in 1,039 reported US and Israeli strikes. It did not say how many of the dead were civilians or whether the figure included members of the armed forces. However, the US-based Human Rights Activists News Agency (HRNA) said overnight that the deaths of 742 civilians, including 176 children, had so far been reported. Crowds of mourners packed the streets of the southern town of Minab on Tuesday for the funerals of children who Iranian authorities have said were killed in a strike on Saturday. Officials have said at least 165 girls and staff died when Shajare Tayyebeh school was hit, and blamed Israel and the US. The IDF said on Sunday that it was not aware of any Israeli or US strikes in the area. The US secretary of state told reporters on Monday that the US "would not deliberately target a school" but that the department of defence was investigating "if that was our strike". "We would have no interest and, frankly, no incentive to target civilian infrastructure," Rubio said. "The Iranians are, on the other hand, targeting civilian infrastructure." Iran's armed forces have responded to the strikes by launching hundreds of missiles and drones at Israel and neighbouring Arab states which host US military installations. A spokesman for the IRGC warned of more intense attacks on Tuesday, telling state TV: "The gates of hell will open more and more." The IDF has said it has intercepted most of the missiles and drones heading towards Israel since the conflict began, but some missiles have landed and killed a total of 10 people. In Kuwait, six US service personnel have been killed in Iranian attacks. Two Kuwaiti army soldiers and one other person have also died. Another three people have been killed in the United Arab Emirates, one person has died in Bahrain, and one person has been killed on a tanker off Oman's coast. Qatar's foreign ministry spokesman condemned the Iranian attacks on its territory and told reporters that they would "not go unanswered". Iran has also declared the closure of the Strait of Hormuz, through which about 20% of global oil and gas shipments pass. "We will burn any ship that tries to pass through the strait," IRGC Brig Gen Ebrahim Jabbari warned. UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said on Tuesday that he was sending an air-defence destroyer, HMS Dragon, to Cyprus after the runway of the RAF Akrotiri airbase was hit by an Iranian-made drone. French President Emmanuel Macron also said he had ordered the Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier group to deploy to the eastern Mediterranean to help protect Cyprus. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
European allies are rushing warships and anti-drone defences to Cyprus after a British air base was hit on the island over the weekend. The small Eastern Mediterranean nation has found itself unexpectedly drawn into the aftermath of US-Israeli strikes on Iran. The UK has announced it is sending helicopters with counter-drone capabilities as well as the Type 45 Destroyer, HMS Dragon. French President Emmanuel Macron confirmed in a televised address that a French frigate, the Languedoc, would arrive in Cyprus on Tuesday evening. Greece has already agreed to send four F-16 fighter jets as well as two frigates, including the ship Psara which is equipped with a Greek anti-drone system called Centauros. Visiting Nicosia on Tuesday, Greek Defence Minister Nikos Dendias promised that "Greece is present, and will continue to be present to assist in any way in the defence of the Republic of Cyprus". Such military assets, allies will hope, can prevent further drone incursions and avoid any casualties that could risk pulling Britain and the EU into a conflict from which they have so far tried to remain removed. "The idea of sending a Type 45 [air defence destroyer] into the vicinity of Akrotiri is to build on a layered air defence system," said former military strategist Mikey Kay. The "very expensive equipment" the UK is sending is "highly capable", Kay said. "But how effective is it when it comes to cost-benefit ratio - and how many missiles do they have when it comes to multiple swarms of Shahed 136 drones?" The BBC team could hear the fierce roar of jets as we stood outside RAF Akrotiri which is used for training and as a mounting base for overseas operations in the Middle East. While Britain did not join US-Israeli strikes on Iran, British planes are taking part in what the government has described as "defensive operations" to protect UK citizens and allies in the Middle East. On Tuesday night, the Ministry of Defence said that RAF F-35 jets flying over Jordan have shot down an Iranian drone. The drone scare at Akrotiri on Sunday has led to British families being evacuated from the base, as well as hundreds of local Cypriots who live nearby. It's all sparked anxiety amongst British military families and some local people while Cyprus has criticised the UK's handling of the situation. Specifically, said a Cypriot government spokesman, an initial lack of clarity "that the British Bases in Cyprus would under no circumstances be used for anything other than humanitarian purposes". Cyprus has stressed it has no involvement in the widening Middle East conflict, and isn't itself a target. Lying off the coasts of Turkey, Syria and Lebanon, Cyprus is the easternmost nation among the European Union's 27 member states. Britain's military presence in Cyprus is a legacy of the colonial past. When Cyprus gained its independence in 1960, the UK retained sovereignty over sites, including on the Akrotiri peninsula. Altogether, these sites cover just under 3% of land on the island, or 98 sq miles, and stretch beyond the restricted military zones. But the British government is now facing questions over its readiness to protect its overseas bases. Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper told the House of Commons that Britain has already brought in additional radar, air and counter-drone capabilities. A drone struck RAF Akrotiri on Sunday night causing minimal damage and no casualties before two further drones were apparently intercepted on Monday. The UK has not said where it thinks the drone that hit the base came from, but the Cypriot government suspects the Iran-backed group Hezbollah in Lebanon. British officials believe the first drone was launched before Prime Minister Keir Starmer announced he would allow the US to use British bases for "limited" and "defensive" strikes on Iranian missile sites. Bases in Cyprus are not being used by US bombers, Starmer has told the House of Commons. RAF Akrotiri was last attacked in 1986 by pro-Libyan militants, wounding three people. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Gas prices have spiked and global stock markets tumbled as the conflict in the Middle East intensified and concerns grew over how long it will last. The UK gas price surged to its highest level for three years on Tuesday, following sharp gains on Monday, while Brent crude oil benchmark briefly rose above $85 a barrel for the first time since July 2024. Meanwhile, the share prices of companies on US, European and Asian stock markets plunged. Since Israel and the US launched strikes on Iran and Tehran retaliated, investors have been weighing the potential economic impact, including what it could mean for inflation and interest rates. There are fears the fight in a region that plays a key role in global energy supplies and shipping routes could have a similar impact to Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine four years ago which pushed up the cost of energy, causing price rises for businesses and consumers around the world. In its latest fiscal outlook document, the UK's Office for Budget Responsibility said the escalation of the conflict could upset its forecasts, warning it could have "very significant impacts on the global and UK economies". German Chancellor Friedrich Merz, who met with Trump at the White House on Tuesday, also voiced concerns about economic damage. "That's the reason why we all hope this war will come to an end as soon as possible," he said. The FTSE 100 index of the largest firms listed in London fell 2.75% by the end of trading on Tuesday, while Germany and France's main indexes closed down 3.44% and 3.46% respectively. In the US, the S&P 500 fell sharply at the open but recovered some of those losses, ending down 0.9%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei fell 3.3%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng and the Shanghai Composite in mainland China were also down. The Kospi in South Korea, which was shut for a public holiday on Monday, fell by more than 7%. The benchmark UK gas price rose above 165p a therm on Tuesday, which it last traded at a year after the start of the Ukraine war. It closed at 138p a therm — still over a fifth higher than Monday's price. UK gas prices have now doubled since the US and Israel began a wave of air strikes on Iran on Saturday. The spike in gas prices came after QatarEnergy, one of the world's biggest exporters, halted production following "military attacks" on its facilities. It later said it would stop producing other materials including aluminium, methanol and urea used for fertiliser. Higher gas prices could put pressure on household energy bills, although any impact would not be seen in the UK until July because a price cap has been put in place until then. Oil prices have not risen as sharply as there is greater flexibility in sourcing additional crude compared to gas, though they are still much higher than on Friday. Nevertheless, rising oil prices can affect the economy by making things such as motor fuel, transport and food more expensive. If inflation — the pace of price rises — picks up, then this may make central banks less likely to cut interest rates in the months ahead. Shipping through the Strait of Hormuz is crucial to the global economy, with about 20% of the world's oil and gas passing through the waterway. But traffic has come to a halt after several vessels were attacked in recent days. Ebrahim Jabbari, an adviser to the commander-in-chief of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), told state TV that ships "should not come to this region. They will certainly face a serious response from us". As well as pushing up prices on global energy markets, the conflict has triggered a rise in how much it costs to transport oil. Hiring a supertanker to move oil from the Middle East to China reached an all-time high on Monday of more than $400,000 (£298,300) per day, almost double the cost last week, according to data from the London Stock Exchange Group. Sanne Manders, president of logistics technology platform Flexport, told the BBC  the Strait of Hormuz was "effectively closed". It is partly down to carriers not willing to take the risk, but also due to "insurance companies not being willing to insure this risk anymore", he told the Today programme. He added that carriers were likely to start raising rates "for any shipping in the world" in anticipation of higher fuel prices. UK households are also likely to see higher fuel prices if the cost of oil remains high, according to Alasdair Locke, chairman of Motor Fuel Group, the UK's largest independent forecourt operator. "With the price of oil going up, that is inevitably going to feed through in due course to higher prices at the pump," he said. "It will depend on how long and how high those prices go as to how high the price of fuel will be." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Funerals have been held for students and staff killed in what Iranian authorities have said was a US-Israeli strike on a school in southern Iran. Iranian officials said more than 160 people were killed when a girls' school was hit in the city of Minab on Saturday, as the US and Israel launched widespread strikes targeting Iran's military sites and leadership. BBC News has not been able to independently verify the Iranian authorities' death toll. The school was located near an Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) base. The US military said it was looking into reports of the incident, while Israel's military said it was "not aware" of any operations in the area. Hundreds of mourners packed the streets to pay their respects at the funeral which was broadcast on Iranian state TV. Coffins draped in the flag of the Islamic Republic were carried through the crowds, as a voiceover recounted the grief of mothers and fathers who had lost their daughters. Iranian officials said the school was hit by three missiles on Saturday morning. It was located about 600m (1970ft) from an IRGC base. The six-day working week in Iran runs from Saturday to Thursday, with Friday being the only official day of rest, meaning the school was likely occupied when it was hit. Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian called the incident a "barbaric act" and "another black page in the record of countless crimes committed by the aggressors". The country's Foreign Minister Seyed Abbas Araghchi posted a photo on social media of graves being dug for 160 people, with the comment: "This is how 'rescue' promised by Mr Trump looks in reality." The BBC has verified clips of the aftermath of the explosion, which show smoke rising from a building as crowds gathered nearby, with some people screaming in panic. International news organisations are often refused visas to Iran which severely limits their ability to gather information there. On Monday, the BBC asked the US Secretary of State Marco Rubio if the school building was struck by an American missile. "The US would not deliberately target a school," Rubio said in response. "We would have no interest, and frankly, no incentive to target civilian infrastructure." "I don't have the details as to what led to it, but what is clear is that the United States would not target a school," he added. In a statement reported in US media, Centcom spokesman Tim Hawkins said: "We take these reports seriously." "The protection of civilians is of utmost importance, and we will continue to take all precautions available to minimise the risk of unintended harm," he said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US is sending charter flights to evacuate Americans from the United Arab Emirates, Jordan and Saudi Arabia as the US-Israeli war against Iran widens. The US State Department said Monday that Americans should "depart now" from Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, the occupied West Bank and Gaza, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, United Arab Emirates and Yemen due to "serious safety risks". But many flights from the region have been cancelled or suspended since the US and Israel began striking Iran on Saturday. Iran responded by firing missiles and drones at Middle Eastern nations allied to the US. The State Department said it is actively working to secure military aircraft and charter flights for Americans seeking to leave the Middle East. "We've been in direct contact with nearly 3,000 Americans abroad," Dylan Johnson of the State Department said on X, urging citizens to call the department's line for assistance. In another statement, the department said 9,000 US citizens have already successfully returned home from the region. The department said it is helping people book flights from countries where commercial air travel is still an option. Florida resident Krista Jucknath Hickman, a US federal employee, said her anniversary trip through the region turned into "chaos" after the state department told Americans to leave. She and her husband had to spend the night at the Dubai airport. She told the BBC that she is now driving from the UAE to Oman and has not yet received clear guidance on how to proceed. "The orders are not realistic, not supportive," she said. "The number provided by the State Department for support is unable to help. I called twice. Both times I was told there are no evacuation procedures in place." Other travellers have told the BBC that they have had to either shelter in place or look for alternative means out of the region. Between 500,000 and one million US nationals are estimated to be living in the Middle East. Exact official numbers are not available as Americans are not required to register with US authorities when they move abroad. American citizens were urged to check "the latest security updates" with nearby embassies and consulates, and given hotlines for if they need help leaving the region. The US embassy in Jerusalem said on Monday that it "is not in a position at this time to evacuate or directly assist Americans in departing Israel", adding that it would be closed on Tuesday. It later said Israel had "begun operating shuttles to the Taba Border Crossing [with Egypt]" but warned that the embassy "cannot make any recommendation (for or against)" using it. On Tuesday, France said it was ready to fly back those of its citizens who were most at risk in the Middle East. French Foreign Minister Jean-Noël Barrot told the country's BFM TV broadcaster this could be done using both commercial and military flights. About 400,000 French nationals are thought to be in the Middle East. On Monday, UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer urged all British citizens in the region to register their presence so the government could provide "the best possible support". Around 102,000 Britons have so far registered their presence in the Middle East with the UK government. Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper told the BBC there were an estimated 300,000 British citizens in the region. She said many of those trapped were holidaymakers, passengers transiting through the Gulf or people on business visits. The UK government has previously used registration schemes to provide urgent updates to people affected by international crises - but the number of people and countries affected in this case is unprecedented. With additional reporting from Sakshi Venkatraman. If it is safe to do so, you can also get in touch by following this link The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Donald Trump has told reporters Sir Keir Starmer is "no Winston Churchill" in the row over the refusal to permit the use of UK bases for the initial US-Israel strikes on Iran. The US had sought to use the military base in Diego Garcia on the Chagos Islands, but the PM refused, only agreeing to the US request to use British military bases subsequently for "defensive" strikes on Iranian missile sites. Speaking to journalists in the Oval Office, Trump said he was "not happy with the UK" over the decision, which led to US planes "flying many extra hours". Royal Navy warship HMS Dragon has been now sent to bolster security at a British air base in Cyprus, after it was hit by drone strikes. On Sunday, the UK agreed to the US request to use British military bases - likely to be RAF Fairford in Gloucestershire and Diego Garcia - but following that decision, the prime minister told MPs the UK government "does not believe in regime change from the skies". "President Trump has expressed his disagreement with our decision not to get involved in the initial strikes, but it is my duty to judge what is in Britain's national interest," he told MPs. The situation changed on Sunday when Iran's "outrageous" response became "a threat to our people, our interests and our allies", the PM said. Iran's retaliation to the US and Israeli attacks had threatened British people across the Middle East, prompting the decision to allow the bases to be used to hit Tehran's missile infrastructure, he said. Calling Sir Keir's decision on the bases "shocking", Trump said: "That island that you write about, the lease....for whatever reason, he made a lease of the island. Somebody came and took it away from him and it's taken three or four days for us to work out where we can land. "It would have been much more convenient landing there as opposed to flying many extra hours. So we are very surprised. "This is not Winston Churchill that we're dealing with." Trump went on to criticise UK government policy on energy and immigration, before adding "this is not the age of Churchill". Earlier on Tuesday, the president criticised the PM to the Sun newspaper, saying: "It's very sad to see that the relationship is obviously not what it was", adding that Sir Keir had "not been helpful", adding he "never thought I'd see that from the UK". Lord Darroch, former British ambassador to the US during Trump's first term, said the comments were "pretty brutal", adding there was "obviously a serious rift there now". "Trump is very unhappy about that denial of British airbases and I think that anger will hang around for a while. "There have been in history ups and downs between No 10 and the White House - not many quite as brutal as this in terms of the language the president has used." However, he cautioned that this was an "impulsive and unpredictable" president and he said "some of the bedrock of the special relationship is still there" in terms of the military and intelligence cooperation being "as close and effective as ever". He added the pair are likely to get past the disagreement because "in the end there's business needs to get done between London and Washington and we need a functioning relationship to do it". The prime minister and his team have invested a lot of energy into building a good relationship with the US president, including inviting him to the UK for a second state visit. Downing Street are maintaining a public silence for now, wary of stoking already volatile rhetoric but aides are insisting Sir Keir has acted in the British national interest, with a sense of where British public opinion is. Treasury Minister Torsten Bell told BBC Radio 4's PM programme that "on the ground" the US and UK were continuing to work closely together and that "what's most important is that in practice, we're seeing that cooperation happen". He said that while the UK had taken a different view to the US, he said he believed "most of the country supports the prime minister in that". "We're really clear about what we're saying, we're saying - we don't support trying to deliver regime change from the air, but we are going to do what's necessary to protect British nationals." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump again expressed skepticism that Reza Pahlavi, the exiled son of Iran's last shah, could run Iran in the future, but did not identify another potential leader. In an Oval Office meeting on Tuesday with German Chancellor Friedrich Merz, Trump declined to specify anyone else, saying that "most of the people we had in mind are dead". Pahlavi, 65, has claimed that he is "uniquely placed"  to lead a transitional government and indicated that he would be willing to return to Iran as soon as possible for the first time in 47 years. Trump, however, has publicly repeated doubts about whether the exiled crown prince has the support necessary among Iranians in his homeland. Speaking alongside Merz, Trump said that while "some people like him", the administration has not "been thinking too much about that." Trump said he was unsure "how he'd play within his own country." "I don't know whether or not his country would accept his leadership," he added. "Certainly if they would, that would be fine with me." Instead, Trump said that he believes someone already within Iran "would be more appropriate."  However, he did not identify a potential option. "Most of the people we had in mind are dead," he said. The country's last leader, Ayatollah Khamenei - along with a large swathe of the country's senior-most leaders - was killed in the initial wave of US and Israeli strikes.  Another strike reportedly targeting surviving Iranian leaders took place on Tuesday, Trump confirmed. As a potential successful model, he pointed to Venezuela, where "we kept the government totally intact" after the capture of Nicolas Maduro on 3 January. Pahlavi has been in exile in the US, primarily in the Washington DC area. He is scheduled to speak at the Conservative Political Action Conference, or CPAC, the largest gathering of conservative activists in the country, in Texas later in March. In an interview with CBS, the BBC's US partner on 1 March, Pahlavi said that he believes Iranians trust him because "they cannot associate me in any way or form to the revolution or part of this regime." Pahlavi's father, the last Shah of Iran, was overthrown in a 1979 revolution largely led by the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the predecessor of the recently slain Khamanei. The revolution brought together a broad coalition of opposition groups that had grown weary of what they saw as the Shah's authoritarian rule and economic problems, as well as modernisation efforts that destabilised rural areas and angered traditional clerics who resented secularisation. While Pahlavi said that he does not expect an "official endorsement" of any foreign leader, "millions of Iranians inside Iran and outside Iran are calling my name." Hundreds of thousands of protesters took to the streets of US and European cities in February following Pahlavi's call for a "global day of action" in solidarity with protests that had swept across Iranian cities in December and January. Tens of thousands of people were killed in the Iranian government's crackdown on those protests, with Trump on Tuesday putting the estimated casualties at 35,000. Since the beginning of the conflict on Saturday, more than 1,700 targets have been struck in Iran, according to US Central Command, the combatant command that oversees the Middle East and parts of south and central Asia. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
People in Tehran are stocking up on essentials as uncertainty over how long the war might continue grows in the Iranian capital. Locals have told BBC Persian they are worried about the availability of groceries and price increases, as explosions continue to sound around the city. "We need to stock up because we don't know for how long it's going to continue," one resident of Tehran, Nasrin, said. "We're worried that we might run out of essentials if we don't." Prices in Iran were already high before this most recent conflict. Cost-of-living pressures and international sanctions sparked nationwide protests in December, which led to a brutal crackdown from the Islamic Republic regime. US and Israeli strikes over the past few days have worsened the situation, according to some residents who have managed to find fleeting internet connections amid internet blackouts to speak to BBC Persian. International news organisations are often refused visas to Iran, which severely limits their ability to gather information about what's going on inside the country. Internet blackouts make the situation even harder to report on. One person based in Tehran, called Pouya, said prices have gone up since the war broke out on Saturday. "I was just checking [the prices] - rice is now at 625 tomans; it was 530 before the war," he said. He added that the items most adversely affected are potatoes. Iranian state news outlets have reported that "in line with the government decision to prioritise the provision of essentials", the export of all food and agriculture products has been banned "until further notice". Internet packages have also risen in price, according to Shayan, a resident of the city of Karaj, about an hour's drive from Tehran. "It's very difficult to get online now," he said, adding that the price of internet packages via Elon Musk's Starlink has increased "enormously". Omid, a 26-year-old in Tehran, said "people are becoming slightly uneasy about how long the situation is dragging on". He said he had assumed the US and Israel would target certain individuals like Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who was assassinated on Saturday, and that the attacks "would be over by now". But he said he had heard more explosions in the city early in the afternoon on Tuesday and due to the continued strikes he had stocked up on essentials. However, not all shops remain open. "There is a greater security presence on the streets, but the streets themselves are empty," he said. "Some shops have closed, particularly those near the affected areas." Other residents reported hearing and witnessing explosions in the capital on Monday and Tuesday. Another city resident, Maryam, said she was near the area hit by missiles on Monday night. "The attacks last night were terrible," she said over text message. "Our house was shaking." Some residents said they had fled Tehran due to attacks on the capital. But Maryam said she intended to stay. "Some people have left Tehran, but we're staying at home," she said. "If we don't get killed, we'll remain here as long as there's a call for protests in the streets, and then I'll go out with my family to join them. I'm very glad that these officials are being targeted. We're enduring the strikes until they're all gone." Around 787 people have been killed in Iran since the US and Israel launched strikes at the country on 28 February, Iran's Red Crescent Society said. There is still significant upheaval, with the Israeli military saying it hit Iran's presidential office on Tuesday, as well as other infrastructure targets. Videos verified by the BBC of explosions to the east of the capital, in Pardis, have also been captured. Iran has carried out widespread retaliatory missile and drone attacks, targeting Israeli government and military sites in Tel Aviv and elsewhere. Strikes have also been reported in countries hosting US bases - Qatar, Bahrain, Jordan, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Kuwait - and US-allied Oman and Saudi Arabia. Iran has been accused of widening its attacks to include other targets in recent days, including on shipping, civilian sites - including hotels in Dubai - and the US embassy in Saudi Arabia's capital, Riyadh. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Londoner stranded in Sri Lanka says she is watching the cost of her holiday spiral after her flight home was cancelled, leaving her unsure when she will be able to return as conflict in the Middle East forces widespread airspace closures. BBC reporter Yasmin Rufo had been due to fly back to London via Abu Dhabi on Monday, but has been told the next available departure may not be until next week - a delay she says she cannot afford as hotel and food costs mount each day. She says she has faced "radio silence" from Etihad Airways since the cancellation, with no clear guidance on when she might be rebooked or whether extra expenses will be covered. Etihad Airways has been approached for comment. Rufo originally planned an 11-day holiday to Sri Lanka with her boyfriend, but as reports of the war involving Iran, the United States and Israel intensified, they began to question whether their flights home would be affected. No Etihad services flew on Sunday after airspace closures and her 04:00 UAE flight from Colombo the following day was confirmed cancelled at 02:00. An email said the airline would be back in touch when it was time to rebook - but Rufo only learned about a possible flight next week after visiting the airport in person. She said: "I think overall the communication has just been really bad. "It is just impossible to get through to anyone on the live chat. There are no lines." Rufo added that she felt the airline should send out one clear email explaining the cancellation, what passengers should do next, whether to call or wait, and what they were or were not entitled to. "It is unclear how to get booked on to another flight and it is unclear in what priority order." She said passengers at the airport seemed "quite stressed and anxious", describing long queues and plenty of travellers also trying to return to London, but added that "everyone is in the same boat". Rufo said uncertainty around whether food and hotel costs would be reimbursed was one of the "most stressful parts" as they were told to keep receipts and claim later, although a representative has since indicated this is unlikely. Rufo was not insured for this trip, but many standard travel insurance policies exclude claims arising from acts of war and she found that others in her hotel who had travel insurance had also been left without a safety net. She said she and her boyfriend had explored every possible route home since the cancellation, but options were extremely limited and increasingly expensive. The earliest flights they could find were next week, with some indirect routes costing up to £4,000 per person, which she said they could not afford. She believes other airlines have significantly inflated their fares, pointing to routes that usually cost only a few hundred pounds now selling for thousands. Rufo said she felt a "little bit anxious" about flying over the Middle East once the airspace reopens but "I think about all the thousands of people that are stranded there. I feel far more for them. "They have all the same financial stresses that I have but they are also fearing for their safety." She urged passengers in similar situations to keep trying to contact their airline or travel provider. "I suppose just try and stick through the four-hour phone wait or the five-hour live chat wait, as difficult as that is." Only a small number of flights are operating, including a single Etihad service from Abu Dhabi to Heathrow on Tuesday, while large parts of Middle Eastern airspace remain closed. Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said the situation "may remain challenging for some time," but added that the UK government was "looking at all options to support our people". In its latest statement on X, Etihad Airways said: "All Etihad's scheduled commercial flights to and from Abu Dhabi remain suspended until 14:00 UAE time on Thursday 5 March." Etihad continues to advise passengers not to travel to the airport unless they have been contacted directly and told to do so. Listen to the best of BBC Radio London on Sounds and follow BBC London on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to hello.bbclondon@bbc.co.uk The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Cornwall's Chamber of Commerce president says the route generated most of the airport's revenue. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A six-year-old boy on holiday in Dubai with his family, asked his parents whether missiles would hit the Burj Khalifa, the world's tallest building, as they watched on from their hotel room. The family from the Isle of Man, on their "bucket list" holiday in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), said they were horrified when they began seeing missiles and fighter jets in the skies above them. The UAE has said three people have been killed by Iranian attacks since Saturday as drones and missiles have been fired across the region. It was on Saturday evening when the mother, who wants to remain anonymous, said she was sitting on the hotel balcony with her son and heard "this almighty bang". "There was a series of loud bangs during the evening and the jets going through the sky - it was just horrific," she said. After a day of sightseeing, she said reaching their hotel that evening there were "very different sounds in the skies above us". The family wish to remain anonymous amid fears of repercussions for anyone projecting a negative messages from inside the country. The holidaymakers said they received no information from authorities but after the first sightings of missiles decided to remain inside the hotel complex. The mother described how her son and other children were "listening for fighter jets and missiles, which is a horrific thing for anybody to have to witness their child do". A "series of loud bangs" carried on through the night, she said, and notifications from authorities began coming through between 00:30 and 01:00 (local time). On Sunday she said a jet flew past their hotel so close they "could see the signage", and her husband believed it was a British fighter jet "very close" and "clearly protecting the area here". She said it had been "very hard to explain" to their son adding "this isn't a very nice situation and we're both just trying to be upbeat about it". The family were due to fly home on 5 March, however they have received no confirmation whether the flight would depart or not and received further advice earlier that the airspace had been closed again. The mother said a lot of what she was "reading online at the moment is contradictory". On one hand she was being told "the airspace is slowly being opened and that people are leaving - and then on the other hand saying that things are escalating". "It's just incredibly scary to not know when we might be able to get back home," she said. Read more stories from the Isle of Man on the BBC, watch BBC North West Tonight on BBC iPlayer and follow BBC Isle of Man on Facebook and X. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The UK is still working closely with the US, a cabinet minister has insisted, after President Donald Trump said the relationship was "obviously not what it was". Darren Jones, the chief secretary to the prime minister, said he understood the president had not been satisfied that the UK was not involved in the initial joint US-Israeli strikes on Iran. But he insisted "operationally" the relationship was "the same", with British fighter jets supporting the American military in the Middle East and the two allies continuing to co-operate on intelligence-sharing and trade. Jones was responding to remarks by Trump, who criticised Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer in an interview with the Sun newspaper. On Monday, Sir Keir told MPs the UK government "does not believe in regime change from the skies" and defended his decision not to allow the US to use British bases for the initial wave of attacks on Iran. The prime minister has since agreed to give the US access to those bases for "defensive" strikes in response to Iranian retaliatory attacks on the UK's citizens and interests. "It's very sad to see that the relationship is obviously not what it was," President Trump told the newspaper on Tuesday. Trump told the newspaper Sir Keir had "not been helpful", adding he "never thought I'd see that from the UK". "It's a different world, actually," Trump said. "It's just a much different kind of relationship that we've had with your country before." When asked about accusations that Sir Keir was pandering to Muslim voters for political reasons, the president said: "It could be." Trump told the newspaper Sir Keir "has got his own difficulties". The US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on Saturday, killing the country's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and other senior figures. Iran responded by launching missiles and drones across the region, targeting countries including Israel, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia as well as ships passing through the Strait of Hormuz. An RAF base in Akrotiri in Cyprus has come under fire as well. The government will deploy a Royal Navy warship, HMS Dragon - a Type 45 Destroyer - to the Mediterranean to bolster security around the base. Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper said 130,000 Britons had registered their location and contact details to receive direct Foreign Office updates on the situation in the Gulf. She said a government charter flight will fly from Oman's capital, Muscat in the coming days, prioritising vulnerable nationals. Sir Keir has faced significant political challenges in recent weeks, not least the loss of a parliamentary by-election in Greater Manchester to the Green Party. The prime minister has sought to foster a close relationship with Trump, despite their differences on issues ranging from the US's attempts to take control of Greenland and the UK's recognition of a Palestinian state. But the president's latest comments deepen what has become the biggest disagreement between the two leaders yet. Speaking to MPs on Monday, Sir Keir acknowledged that disagreement but argued it was his "duty to judge what is in Britain's national interest". Sir Keir has repeatedly evoked the "mistakes of Iraq", a country invaded by a US-led coalition in 2003, with major participation from the UK. The legality of that war has long been disputed. Sir Keir told MPs on Monday: "The lessons of history have taught us that it is important when we make decisions like this, that we establish there is a lawful basis for what the United Kingdom is doing. "That is one of the lessons from Iraq, and that there's a viable thought-through plan with an objective that can be achieved or has a viable prospect of being achieved. "That is the principle that I applied to the decisions that I made over the weekend." Trump and senior administration officials have offered different views on what they want to achieve in Iran. The US president initially said the objective was to "defend the American people by eliminating imminent threats from the Iranian regime" and appealed to the people of Iran to "take over your government". In a news conference on Monday, Trump said the US was seeking to destroy Iran's ballistic missile capabilities and navy, its ability to develop nuclear weapons, and support for proxy groups in the region. Speaking to BBC Breakfast, Jones was asked whether the US's strikes on Iran were legal under international law. "It's not for me to comment on the legal basis of actions taken by other countries," Jones said. "That's for the Americans to explain and for any international court that they recognise to come to a judgement." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A bishop who fled Iran in 1980 said she hoped Britain had learnt lessons from getting "involved too deeply" in previous conflicts. The Bishop of Chelmsford, Dr Guli Francis-Dehqani, came to the UK aged 14 after her brother was murdered during 1979's Iranian revolution. Speaking to the BBC as US-Israeli attacks in Iran continued, Francis-Dehqani said: "I hope that Britain does indeed remember the lessons of Iraq and does not get involved too deeply and too soon." Prime Minister Keir Starmer said the UK had not played a role, but had allowed the US to use British military bases for "defensive" strikes. Francis-Dehqani added: "If you look at it coldly, this was an unprovoked attack on Iran. "I know that Israel and the United States said that it was a pre-emptive attack, but it's difficult to see. Pre-emptive against what?" In a statement, Francis-Dehqani said it was unclear where military action by Israel and the US would "ultimately lead". Ayatollah Ali Khamenei's iron grip on power in Iran came to an end when he was killed on the first day of the action. Francis-Dehqani said: "I think, like most Iranians, and most sensible people, there are mixed emotions. "On one hand, I think the fact that the leadership of a very brutal regime which has been repressing the Iranian people for well over 30 years has been removed, is a source of joy to many people. But she added: "Total horror and destruction have been rained down on the region and what we don't know is Iran's capability to continue this." The number of people killed in Iran since the attacks began on Saturday has reached 787, according to Iran's Red Crescent Society, its national humanitarian society. President Donald Trump has said the US is seeking to destroy Iran's ballistic missile capabilities and navy, its ability to develop nuclear weapons, and support for proxy groups in the region. He has argued the broader purpose of the war was to protect the US and its allies from attacks by Iran. Follow Essex news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. The Bishop of Norwich urges people not to lose hope, despite "a sense events are spiralling beyond control". The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Bishop of Sodor and Man calls to reflect on shared unity this Easter despite global "uncertainty". The Bishop of St Edmundsbury and Ipswich Dr Joanne Grenfell delivers her special Easter message. The bishop of Chelmsford reflects on her visit to a church in the West Bank. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Scottish man and his wife who live in Qatar hid in a cupboard and told their young children that missile noise was a thunderstorm during airstrikes from the US-Israel war with Iran. Alex Demianczuk, 46, and his American wife Christina Paschyn, 40, have lived in Doha since 2011, and have two children aged four and six. The husband and wife, from Edinburgh and Cleveland, Ohio, respectively, have been sheltering since the conflict erupted. They say they have now told their children that it is "countries fighting" and they hope the war ends "as soon as possible". The region has been plunged deeper into crisis after Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei was killed in an attack on Saturday. Missile and drone strikes were launched by the US and Israel following the breakdown of talks on the country's nuclear activities. Iran responded with a barrage of rocket and missile attacks on neighbouring countries. Paschyn told BBC Scotland News: "The first two days were more intense. "You would get the constant waves of missiles, and you could hear the explosions. "We told the kids that it was a big thunderstorm. I know it sounds ridiculous." She added: "I was at a dance class with my daughter when the notification came in from the US Embassy on my phone that Israel attacked Iran and it was time to shelter. "So I grabbed her and said it's a big thunderstorm and we have to get home." She said they kept up the ruse for the first few days of the conflict. "We finally told them the truth yesterday, in a child-friendly way, so they're aware," she said. "And they were like 'where's the rain?' "We explained it's like countries fighting, they're having a bad fight, but we're staying safe in our house, to make sure nothing happens to us." Her husband said it had been "surprisingly quite calm actually", albeit a "little bit anxious at times". "Things are a bit out of our control at the minute," he added. "We've got to try to stay as calm as possible for our kids, so they're not getting overly stressed out and anxious. "It seems to be the Qataris are doing their job and intercepting the missiles, so we're feeling pretty safe." The couple say they have seen the missile interceptor trails from their home. Demianczuk said the children seemed ok "but at their age I don't think they quite fully comprehend the severity of everything". He added: "They're just happy that they're off school, and having extended screen time I guess. "Day-to-day living is being inside the house. A lot of it is pacing up and down." His wife said the scariest time was during the night, as she feared missiles would most likely be fired then. "It's scary when the explosions do happen, and then we run to the pantry, without any windows," she said. "One precaution we are taking, as soon as they fall asleep, we bring [the children] back into our room so we are all together. "You're afraid to go outside because of the explosions. It could get a lot worse." She added: "We're all just hoping for this war to end as soon as possible." Strong winds battered the country on Saturday through the night, with a top wind speed of 73mph recorded in Buchan, Aberdeenshire. The annual race was created in honour of Queen Elizabeth II's platinum jubilee, honouring her favourite breed. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A review of the front page stories from the daily newspapers in Scotland. Procurement for another new CalMac ferry begins but the GMB union says UK-based shipbuilders will struggle to compete with firms in "low-wage economies". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A woman with stage three cancer says she is terrified her health is getting worse as she remains stranded in Dubai. Lindsay Stone, 47, from Plymouth, was meant to start chemotherapy on Friday but has no idea if she will make it back in time because flights across the Gulf have been cancelled for days amid the US-Israeli war with Iran. Stone, who has been counting down to her treatment date, is among tens of thousands of passengers stranded. She said: "I have been hassling doctors at Derriford Hospital to start. I thought we would be back on Sunday and now I am worried the cancer will get worse because I have not had chemo in time." The family had been on the final day of holiday when a huge explosion shook the sky above their hotel pool on Saturday. Stone, along with husband Paul, 54, and daughter Summer, 11, are staying in a hotel on The Palm near Jebel Ali Port which was affected by debris from an intercepted missile. Major Gulf hubs, including Dubai, which usually handles over 1,000 flights a day, remains closed for a fourth day due to the conflict. "I feel like my health is getting worse and I am in quite a lot of pain and would rather be with doctor," said Stone. "For me it is really stressful and if something happens to me or I go downhill, what do we do?" Paul, an estate agent, said: "There was a large explosion above the hotel which was a drone being shot down. "There was a massive plume of smoke above the hotel and everybody started running into the hotel." Their Virgin Airways flight is booked for Wednesday morning but they have no idea if the flight will actually take off. A Virgin spokesperson said the flight was "subject to ongoing assessments and if there are any flight changes, they will receive information". Stone said he was doing everything he could to keep the family steady. "As long as my family is safe, I am okay, we just want to get home." Plymouth professional boxer Callum Dan, 16, is stuck in Bangkok with his father after winning a fight in Thailand. He and his dad Shaun had been due to fly home through Doha but it was grounded. "We are kind of making the best of a situation, really," said Shaun. "The chances are this is going to be pretty much ongoing, so we've just got to monitor it basically, and try to get out on another route." Follow BBC Cornwall on X, Facebook and Instagram. Follow BBC Devon on X, Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk. The fire service says it is the second time in three days the former Sherwood Hotel has had a fire. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. Police chief James Vaughan says he is committed to restoring frontline officer numbers. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Cornwall's Chamber of Commerce president says the route generated most of the airport's revenue. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned that the war in the Middle East could leave Ukraine struggling to source air defence missiles. He also said there was "a risk" Ukraine's allies could be distracted by the conflict, and forget his country's defence against Russia's full-scale invasion. "We could find ourselves having difficulty obtaining missiles and weapons to defend our skies," he told Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera. "The Americans and their allies in the Middle East might need them to defend themselves, for example Patriot missiles." Asked if there was a risk the United States and the European Union could forget Ukraine's defence while focused on the Middle East, Zelensky replied: "Of course, it's a risk. But I hope the Iranian crisis remains a limited operation and doesn't turn into a long war. We know first-hand how bloody it risks being." For years Ukraine has become accustomed to being in the eyes of the world. Last week the streets of Kyiv thronged with Western leaders marking the grim, fourth anniversary of the moment Russia launched its all-out war. But a few days later, people here in Ukraine's capital have felt an almost tangible shift of focus away to another conflict. Some here have pointed out the reaction of Gulf residents to drone strikes that in Kyiv would prompt no more than a shrug. But more fear what the fighting in the Middle East might mean for them. Zelensky's remarks illustrate that uncertainty. On one hand he is gloomy, pointing to the risks that Ukraine's defence against Russia becomes a forgotten war. There is already uncertainty about whether the latest planned talks with the US and Russia will take place. He is also aware the vast numbers of air defence interceptor missiles being fired off by Gulf countries could lead to a global shortage, making such weapons more expensive and harder to find. That was certainly true last summer when Israel and the US attacked Iran's nuclear facilities. "Israel was under Iranian attack then, and missile delivery programs for us were slowed down," Zelensky said. "It hasn't happened yet, but I fear it could happen again." On Truth Social, President Trump claimed the US had an "unlimited supply" of arms. But he also used his post to mock Zelensky as "PT Barnum", a 19th-Century US showman and hoaxer, suggesting Ukraine's leader had tricked President Joe Biden into giving away too many US weapons for free. Nonetheless, Zelensky has also looked for positives. Iran has sold Russia tens of thousands of Shahed drones that almost nightly wreak deadly havoc on Ukraine. That may stop. "I think attacking Iranian military targets was a good decision," he said. "The Iranians produce a lot of weapons for Russia, especially drones and missiles, although I don't think they'll be able to do that anymore." Analysts point out however that Russia now also produces Shaheds domestically, after taking Iran's design and modifying it for attacks on Ukrainian cities. Kyiv may also benefit, financially and politically, if it could support Gulf partners with drone technology and expertise – but, as Zelensky has pointed out, that could probably happen only if Russia were to agree a ceasefire. Ukraine's president also believes Vladimir Putin's failure to support Iran shows the Russian president's weakness: "He talks, but doesn't act, demonstrating that he is a weak ally of the Iranians. Just as he was with Bashar Assad's Syria." That optimistic note was echoed by Oleksandr Merezhko, chairman of the foreign relations committee in Ukraine's parliament. He told me that by supporting US attack on Iran, Ukraine could win favour in the White House: "The US does not view us as allies, but as partners," he said. "This gives us a chance to show that we are allies. We are fighting against the same coalition – Iran and Russia." Merezhko also said Moscow had lost influence with the US because it could no longer argue it had influence over Tehran and its nuclear ambitions. "Iran does not have this leverage anymore, so it has become less useful in the eyes of Trump," the MP said. Others are less sure. They point out Russia has no formal defence partnership with Iran and had made no commitment to come to its aid in event of a US attack. Some also suggest Putin is deliberately staying out of the conflict, apart from calling Gulf leaders to offer Russia's services as a mediator with Iran. John Lough, head of foreign policy at the New Eurasian Strategies Centre, said: "Putin's priority is to preserve the relationship with Trump and to use it to help him out of the quagmire he has blundered into in Ukraine." "In return for not standing in Trump's way in Iran, he can reasonably expect Washington to put more pressure on Ukraine to accept his terms for peace," Lough added. Russia may also gain if global oil prices continue to soar, fuelling its industrial war machine. The US-based Institute for the Study of War think tank said: "Sustained high oil prices could keep Russia economically afloat and allow Russia to fund its war in Ukraine in the medium term." But crucially, it added: "It is unlikely, however, that Iran can successfully and indefinitely impose a blockade on the Strait of Hormuz long enough for Russia to reap long-term benefits from the current surge in oil prices." Just one reason why Ukrainian policymakers are hoping the war in the Middle East does not sustain. The biggest fear, perhaps, in Kyiv is that conflict in the Middle East fuels yet more war fatigue over Ukraine. One diplomat told me that despite rising temperatures as winter makes way for spring, the mood in the capital was grim. "There is a lot of exhaustion," they said. "The mood is almost brooding. There is a deep sense of betrayal from the Americans. And less trust in the Europeans. And now all this distraction. It's not great." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
We are not long in to this new war between the United States, Israel and Iran. It is already a regional war, after Iran's decision to attack Arab states who are US allies as well as Iran's neighbours across the Gulf. The United Kingdom has dropped its refusal to allow the US to use its bases. The war is still escalating, and news alerts are pouring in on my phone. I've just read a press release from US Central Command saying that three US F-15E Strike Eagles have been shot down by Kuwaiti air defences in "an apparent friendly fire incident". By the time I finish writing this piece more missiles will have been fired and more than likely people who are alive now will have been killed. It is way too soon to have any idea of when or how the war will finish. Once wars start, they are hard to control. But here are some of the ways that the belligerents would like it to end. President Trump, as ever, has radiated confidence in American power since he announced the war had started in a video message filmed at his Mar-a-Lago residence in Florida. Other presidents might have chosen a solemn address from behind the Resolute desk in the Oval Office. Trump wore an open-neck shirt and a white baseball cap pulled low over his eyes. He ran through a long charge sheet, arguing that Iran had been an imminent threat to the US since the Islamic Revolution in 1979. Trump can always change his mind, but in that speech, he provides a definition of his conception of victory. It amounts to a check list: "We are going to destroy their missiles and raze their missile industry to the ground. It will be totally, again, obliterated. We're going to annihilate their navy. We're going to ensure that the region's terrorist proxies can no longer destabilize the region or the world, and attack our forces, and no longer use their IEDs or roadside bombs, as they are sometimes called to, so gravely wound and kill thousands and thousands of people, including many Americans." Trump claimed Iran was developing missiles that could reach the US, a statement that is not backed up by US intelligence assessments. He also claimed it was close to developing a nuclear weapon, contradicting his own statement last summer that the US had "obliterated" Iran's nuclear sites. Trump believes that the US, with Israel, can cripple the regime in Tehran. If it does not capitulate, he sees it as being so smashed that the Iranian people will have their best chance in generations to take to the streets to seize power: "When we are finished, take over your government. It will be yours to take. This will be probably your only chance for generations. For many years, you have asked for America's help, but you never got it. No president was willing to do what I am willing to do tonight. Now you have a president who is giving you what you want. So let's see how you respond." Transferring responsibility for regime change to the Iranian people, even when he is directly encouraging them to act, gives him a potential get out at a later date if the regime survives. But it can also be viewed as a moral responsibility for the US to see it through, though it's an open question as to how much that would sway a president who believes there is always a deal to be done. There is no precedent for changing a regime or winning a war against a well-armed adversary simply by using air power. In 2003 the US and its allies including the UK sent major ground forces into Iraq to remove Saddam Hussein. In 2011, Libya's Col Muammar Gaddafi was removed by rebel forces armed by Nato and Gulf countries and protected by their air forces. Trump is hoping that the Iranian people can do the job themselves. Trump's plan is a huge gamble. The odds are stacked against bombing alone causing regime change. Could there be an internal pro-western coup? Not impossible, but highly unlikely viewed from day three of the war. It is more likely that the men now running the regime will hunker down, fire more missiles, fuelled by ideology and the conviction that they can take more pain than the US, Israel or the Arab Gulf states. Most of the pain will be felt by the long-suffering Iranian people. But they do not have a say in the matter. Like Donald Trump, Benjamin Netanyahu has also made statements encouraging Iranians to take matters into their own hands. But if they cannot overcome the regime's ruthless security forces, Netanyahu's priority is smashing Iran's military capacity and its ability to rebuild militias around the region that could threaten Israel. For decades, Benjamin Netanyahu has seen Iran as Israel's most dangerous enemy. He believes that the Islamic Republic's rulers want to build a nuclear weapon to destroy the Jewish state. On Sunday, day two of the war, he stood on a roof in Tel Aviv, perhaps the defence ministry building in the heart of the city, and stated how he saw the war ending. He said that Israel and America together would be able "to do what I've hoped to achieve for 40 years – to crush the regime of terror completely". He said it was a promise that he would make sure became a reality. Wars always have a domestic political dimension. Like Trump, Netanyahu faces elections later this year. Unlike Trump, his own job is on the line. Many Israelis blame Netanyahu for the security blunders that gave Hamas an opportunity to attack on 7 October 2023. He will take a giant step towards electoral forgiveness if he can say he has led Israel to a decisive victory over Iran. He might even be unbeatable. The killing of the supreme leader and his top military advisers was a hammer blow to the regime. But it does not necessarily mean that it will collapse. Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini and its other founders nearly 50 years ago designed its institutions to survive wars and assassinations. It is not a one-man show. The Syrian and Libyan states under Assad and Gaddafi were built around ruling families. When the families were removed – Gaddafi was killed and Bashar al-Assad fled – the regimes collapsed. Iran's regime is a state system, resting on a complex and dense network of political and religious institutions with overlapping responsibilities. It is engineered to survive wars and assassinations. That does not mean it will. The Islamic Republic's system faces its sternest test. But it has planned for this moment. The regime's definition of victory is survival. To achieve that it surrounds itself with a formidable level of protection. It has a powerful and ruthless apparatus of security, repression and coercion. In January its men went on to the streets, following orders to kill thousands of protestors. So far - and as I have said repeatedly, it's only day three of the war as I write this - there is no sign that the regime's armed forces are melting away, as Assad's did after he fled to Moscow in December 2024. As well as conventional armed forces and well-armed police, there is the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps, with an explicit mandate to protect the regime at home and abroad. It exists to be the muscle behind the velayat-e faqih, the guardianship of the jurist. That is the key doctrine of the Islamic revolution in Iran, which justifies the rule of Shia religious leaders. The IRGC is believed to have 190,000 on active duty and as many as 600,000 reservists. Religious doctrine apart, it also runs much of the economy. Its leaders have financial as well as ideological reasons to stay loyal. The IRGC is backed by the Basij, a volunteer paramilitary force. Its estimated 450,000 members have a reputation for loyalty to the regime and for thuggery. I saw them in action in Tehran as the regime's first line of defence during the protests that followed the disputed 2009 election, threatening and beating protestors on the streets with clubs and rubber truncheons. Behind them were heavily armed police and IRGC men. The Basij also had flying squads on motorcycles that raced around the city dealing with outbreaks of dissent. Donald Trump has threatened the IRGC and the Basij with certain death - he said "it won't be pretty" - unless they lay down their arms. His threats are unlikely to change many minds among the regime's armed men. The Islamic Republic and Shia Islam are imbued with the idea of martyrdom. When after hours of official claims on Sunday that the supreme leader was safe and well, the weeping newsreader on state TV announced Khamanei's death by saying that he had drunk the sweet pure draft of martyrdom. Some serious analysts of Iran suspect the Ayatollah went ahead with a meeting at his compound in Tehran with his senior advisors when much of the rest of the world believed an attack was imminent because he sought martyrdom. The regime has a core of civilian loyalists. Thousands went onto the streets of Tehran after the killing of the supreme leader, on the first of 40 days of mourning. They gathered in public squares lighting candles and the torches of their mobile phones, despite the plumes of smoke rising from US and Israeli airstrikes. The Americans believe that this time, their raw power - along with Israel's - can impose regime change on an enemy without creating a disaster. The precedents are not good. The removal of Iraq's Saddam Hussein in 2003 led to a catastrophe - long years of war that incubated jihadist extremist movements that still exist. Libya, a country with enough oil to give its small population western standards of living, is broken and impoverished, a failed state 15 years after Gaddafi was removed from power and killed. Western countries who celebrated his fall and made it happen essentially washed their hands of responsibility after the country broke up. Iran is a big country, almost three times the size of Iraq with a multi-ethnic population of more than 90 million. If the regime in Iran does fall, the nightmare scenario is that the confusion, chaos and bloodshed that might follow could rival the civil wars that killed hundreds of thousands in Syria and Iraq. Military action by the US and Israel is pulverising Iran's military capacities. That changes the equation in the Middle East, even if the regime survives. Many, most likely most Iranians, would rejoice if it fell. But it would be an immense challenge to replace a regime removed by force with a peaceful, coherent alternative. Trump's gamble is that it will be possible, that this war will make the Middle East a better and safer place. The odds against that happening are challenging. Top picture credits:  AFP via Getty Images BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. Emma Barnett and John Simpson bring their pick of the most thought-provoking deep reads and analysis, every Saturday. Sign up for the newsletter here The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A petrol station owner has described rising fuel prices in light of the ongoing Middle East conflict as "dreadful". Leza Stephensen, manager at the Tolladine Service Station in Worcester, said in less than a week her fuel orders had risen by 8p per litre. It comes after Iran launched attacks on Gulf states as part of its retaliation following US and Israeli strikes that began early on Saturday. Iran has also warned vessels not to pass through the Strait of Hormuz, a crucial waterway in the south of the country through which about 20% of the world's oil and gas is shipped. Stephensen said: "I placed an order last Thursday and between then and yesterday morning's delivery it's gone up by 5p per litre on my price. "Not only that, it's now gone up another 3p overnight." The service station manager explained that suppliers were entitled to increase prices even after stock had been ordered due to the "fluctuation in fuel prices". "It's just something we have to live with." Tolladine Service Station is currently selling unleaded fuel for 134.9p per litre and diesel for 144.9p per litre, but Stephensen said she would need to increase her prices. She said she would first be waiting to see "what happens locally" but warned the price rise on her order, coupled with VAT, would mean motorists could be looking at a rise of 10p per litre. She said she did not have a clue what prices would be by the next time she ordered fuel. "It's dreadful. I promise I'm not making any more than I was last week on it and I need to put it up, I do need to put it up at the moment.". Follow BBC Hereford & Worcester on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. The new rules will be introduced in October and are described as the most significant reform of driver licensing for 70 years. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. A number of lane closures and full carriageway closures are planned for the M5 near Worcester. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A former England cricketer said life under air alerts in Doha felt "eerie" but was "weirdly" becoming routine. Mal Loye, who previously played for Northamptonshire and Lancashire and now coaches the Qatar national cricket team, said he has spent the past three days in Doha listening to missile interceptions and overnight explosions as tensions escalate across the Middle East. The 53-year-old, who lives in a high-rise area of the city, said what at first felt scary was now becoming part of daily life. When speaking to Annabel Amos on BBC Radio Northampton, he said: "It's a bit eerie overnight when you hear the bombs go off... but weirdly I'm starting to get used to it." The US and Israel struck Iran on Saturday, killing Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Iran has retaliated with a wave of attacks across the region. The former cricketer had flown back to the UK for his daughter's birthday before returning to Qatar on 28 February. Since then, Loye has registered with the British embassy to receive updates and has been staying indoors because of potential "shrapnel from the sky". "It's quite calm, it reminds me a bit of lockdown. [Doha] is completely empty, it's like a ghost town. "The bombing seems to happen very early in the morning or late at night. That's the only time it's worrying. "The cricket stadium is very close to the American airbase so I'm definitely not going there. Where we go from this I don't know," he said. Loye said he was waiting to find out what options he has to leave Qatar, with airspace restrictions limiting routes out of the country. "It might mean getting the bus to Riyadh in Saudi Arabia... but I'm very much playing it by ear at the moment," he added. The UK government is understood to be formulating potential plans to evacuate UK nationals should airspace in the region remain closed. Elsewhere, flight disruption has also left families stranded. In Dubai, Claire, 42, her husband and their two children, from Braunston, Northamptonshire, were among thousands unable to return to the UK. Claire's mother, Fiona, died from motor neurone disease on 7 February and she cannot reschedule the funeral service because other relatives have already made travel and accommodation plans. Claire said: "I hate the thought of [her sister] going through [the funeral] on Friday without me." In Dubai, several hotels and buildings have been struck by missiles while the city's airport was also hit. Claire and her family had been staying at the Five Palm Jumeirah when missiles were intercepted overhead. "There were a couple of intercepted missiles overhead, very loud. "We're not used to dealing with this sort of thing, so it's not a case of just being on holiday for a few more days," she added. Claire said she had spent about £2,000 on additional flights scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday in the hope of getting home in time. Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A British businessman in Dubai has said he is "in good spirits", despite the threat of missile strikes amid the conflict in the Middle East. Max Wyatt, who has lived in the United Arab Emirates city for seven years, said he had seen or heard a number of explosions in recent days as Iranian missiles were intercepted overhead. It was one of the locations targeted by Iran in response to US and Israel strikes on Saturday, which killed Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Wyatt, originally from Newcastle-under-Lyme, Staffordshire, said the attacks on Dubai were "concerning" but he was not frightened. "I'm in good spirits. I know some people feel differently but I guess it's just how you look at it," he told BBC Radio Stoke. The travel company owner said he was walking along the city's marina a couple of days ago when he heard the "first few bangs" of missiles being intercepted. Wyatt also said he saw explosions when he was in his high-rise apartment with a friend. "I heard a bang," he said. "It didn't shake the building but it was quite loud and you could see the smoke in the sky." Dubai International Airport (DXB), Jebel Ali Port and two luxury hotels in the city were damaged as a result of the Iranian strikes in recent days. While Wyatt described the experience as "insane", he said he had faith the government and military would protect the citizens. Wyatt said there had been a "weird energy" about Dubai in the wake of the attacks, with many roads quieter than usual and some people already panic buying. "It feels like being back in Covid times - the way people are acting and the vibe," he said. "I can sort of understand it when people have family and kids. "But the government and the military are always reassuring us that it's going to be fine and I really do believe that. Honestly, I'm not afraid." Despite reports of some expats fleeing Dubai and heading back to the UK, Wyatt said it had not crossed his mind and he would be staying put. He expected the conflict to have an impact on his travel company but added: "I think everything will be all sorted soon. I'm hoping so, anyway." Follow BBC Stoke & Staffordshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. Find out when, where and how you can have your say in the three council elections in Staffordshire. The UK Foreign Office says it is giving consular assistance to "a small number of British nationals" that have been detained there after allegedly taking pictures of Iranian attacks. The operators of Walleys Quarry were ordered to stop accepting waste in March 2024. The Gulf's hub airports made long-distance travel cheaper - but now their future looks unclear. James Shemmeld is selling ice cream as a contrast to his day job. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
For the best part of 48 hours, first the defence secretary and then the foreign secretary were struggling to cogently articulate in public what the government made of the US and Israel's attacks on Iran and why. But in the Commons the prime minister directly and explicitly set out his view, when he told MPs the government "does not believe in regime change from the skies". He was also explicit in acknowledging his disagreement with President Donald Trump – perhaps his biggest and most consequential such disagreement yet. Sir Keir Starmer took questions from MPs for around two-and-a-half hours, spelling out that he thought the American and Israeli actions were not right and implying they were not lawful either - but that it was both right and lawful to authorise the US to use UK airbases to bomb Iranian missile launch sites, in order to protect British allies in the Gulf from attack. The memory of the Iraq war was referred to repeatedly across the chamber, including by the Prime Minister. A conflict that happened more than a decade before he became an MP and more than two decades before he arrived in Downing Street was key to the case he made for his outlook now. There is, without question, an argument about what would be lawful. For the Conservatives, shadow attorney general Lord Wolfson has set out why he believes UK involvement could be argued to be within international law. But the prime minister disagrees and his instinct on the importance of acting lawfully was made abundantly clear – a position we shouldn't be surprised about given he is a former senior lawyer. Most Labour MPs appear broadly comfortable with Sir Keir's judgement, as he faces criticism from both left and right. The Conservatives and Reform UK say the UK should have been much more explicit in its support for allies the US and Israel. The Liberal Democrats, Green Party and Scottish National Party are, to varying degrees, more critical of President Trump. An opinion poll by YouGov suggests far more people in Britain oppose the US's actions than support them and far more oppose the UK allowing the US to use British airbases than support that decision. Meanwhile, Chancellor Rachel Reeves will deliver her Spring Statement at lunchtime. It was already an intentionally low-key affair: "it is not a fiscal event" her team emphasise – in other words there won't be any tax or spending changes. It is instead her response to forecasts from the Office for Budget Responsibility and we can expect an emphasis on stability and a desire to cut the cost of living, borrowing and debt and create the conditions for economic growth. There have been at least some indicators recently pointing to a more positive economic picture but once again there has been another international shock, demanding a hasty addition of at least a few paragraphs at the beginning of Reeves's speech. The economic and diplomatic consequences of President Trump's actions in recent days are only just beginning to unfold. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
First Lady Melania Trump presided over a United Nations Security Council meeting on children and education in conflict in New York on Monday, as the US continues its military action in Iran. Her remarks centred around the role of education for children in "advancing tolerance and world peace". It is the first time the spouse of any world leader has presided over the meeting, which Trump did on behalf of the US as it assumed the rotating presidency of the UN council this month. The first lady also offered her condolences to families of US service members who have been killed, though she did not explicitly mention any particular military action. "Their bravery and dedication will always be remembered," she said. "I extend my earnest wishes for a swift and smooth recovery to all those who have been injured. You are in my thoughts and prayers during these challenging times." Trump, who advocates for children in her official role, also said: "The US stands with all of the children throughout the world. I hope soon peace will be yours". The plan for her to chair the meeting was announced late last month. UN Under-Secretary General Rosemary DiCarlo said during the meeting that "when conflicts erupt, children are among those most severely affected". "We have been reminded of this truth over the last two days," she said. "Schools in Israel, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain and Oman have closed and moved to remote learning owing to the ongoing military operations in the region," she added. She also cited the reports from Iran about a elementary school strike. Iranian officials say a strike hit an elementary school in the town of Minab on Saturday, killing 153. Iran has blamed the US and Israel. Before Monday's meeting began, Iran's ambassador to the UN Amir Saeid Iravani said "it is deeply shameful and hypocritical that on the very first day of its presidency of the Security Council, the United States convened a high-level meeting on protecting children". The US military's Central Command has said it was looking into reports of the incident, while Israel's military said it was "not aware" of any IDF operations in the area. US Secretary of State Marco Rubio said on Monday that "the United States will not deliberately target a school." The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A limited number of flights have been able to leave the United Arab Emirates                           as departures across the Middle East continue to be disrupted by the joint Israeli and US war on Iran. More than 4,000 flights a day have been cancelled across the region, according to flight tracking service Flightradar24, with hundreds of thousands of passengers affected. The disruption "will only increase the longer the crisis continues" and it "will have enormous repercussions for the industry," director of communications Ian Petchenik said. The ongoing airline disruption comes as more than 100,000 Britons have registered their presence in the Middle East with the UK government. On Monday morning, 79% of global flights to Qatar and 71% of flights to the United Arab Emirates had been cancelled, according to aviation analytics firm Cirium, while 81% of flights to Israel and 92% of flights to  Bahrain have also been grounded. United Arab Emirates national carrier Etihad Airways had suspended services until 14:00 local time (10:00 GMT) on Wednesday. But there were some ad-hoc departures on Monday, including an Etihad flight to London Heathrow (EY67), which landed at 19:17 GMT, according to Flightradar24. Fay McCaul was on that flight after being stuck with her seven-year-old son in Abu Dhabi over the weekend. Speaking at Heathrow on Monday evening, the 41-year-old described the situation at Abu Dhabi Airport as "pretty chaotic". "It was just taking ages to board, with no announcements, so we didn't know what was going on," she said. "And then after the boarding time, sirens started going off in the airport and everyone started receiving texts on their phones with alarm signals to stay away from windows because of potential missile strikes. "So then it was pretty chaotic, and the airline obviously didn't know what was going on either." She added her son had had "a lovely time because he had no idea of what was going on", but she said it had been pretty stressful" for her. Other Etihad flights have left for destinations including Moscow, Paris, Cairo, Delhi and Karachi, according to Flightradar24. The airline said: "Some repositioning, cargo and repatriation flights may operate in coordination with UAE authorities and subject to strict operational and safety approvals". All regular scheduled services remain cancelled. Dubai Airports has announced on social media that a "limited resumption of operations" will begin on Monday evening, with a small number of flights allowed to operate from the region's two main hubs – Dubai International and Dubai World Central. The Dubai-based airline Emirates says it will accommodate customers with earlier bookings on these flights as a priority, and will contact passengers directly. No flights are so far taking off or landing from Doha, as Qatari airspace remains closed. Earlier in the day, Qatar's national airline Qatar Airways said its flight operations remain temporarily suspended on Monday due to the closure of Qatari airspace. "Qatar Airways will resume operations once the Qatar Civil Aviation Authority announces the safe reopening of Qatari airspace," the airline wrote on X. From the UK, flights have also been cancelled for many Middle East destinations, including all flights to Israel and Bahrain, three-quarters of the day's scheduled flights to the United Arab Emirates, and more than two-thirds (69%) of flights to Qatar. Although some flights have left the UAE today, a large number of passengers remain stranded. Passengers due to fly with Emirates from Dubai have been told the airline will begin operating a limited number of flights on Monday evening, with priority being given to those who had earlier bookings cancelled. The airline said it would contact people it has rebooked onto these flights directly, and warned its customers not to head to the airport unless they have been notified. It said further updates would be published on its website and social media channels. Etihad, which operates out of Abu Dhabi, said its regular scheduled flights would remain cancelled until Wednesday. It warned customers not to travel to the airport unless they have been directly contacted by the airline. They are also advised to ensure their contact details are up to date within their bookings, and to check the status of their flight online. Qatar Airways said all operations remain suspended. It plans to provide an update early on Tuesday, and has told passengers to keep across the latest information via its website and app. Meanwhile the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) said travellers planning to head to the Middle East should check its website for travel advice relating to their destination. It currently advises against travel to a range of places in the region and says that those who travel against FCDO advice could invalidate their travel insurance. British nationals in Bahrain, Israel, Kuwait, Palestine, Qatar and United Arab Emirates can register to receive direct updates from the FCDO. Ian Scott, from Wedmore in Somerset, told BBC Your Voice he had been travelling back from Melbourne to Venice when his Saturday morning flight out of Doha was forced to turn back mid-air due to the conflict. "We were in airport for 15 hours before evacuation to a hotel. That was full and we had to shelter underground due to close explosions," he said. Since then, Scott said he could hear blasts in the area, and is still waiting for an opportunity to leave. Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper told the BBC the situation was "deeply stressful" for those affected. She said many of those stuck were people travelling for holiday or business. Asked if the government was considering launching an evacuation, she said it was in close contact with airlines, airports, Middle Eastern governments and the travel industry. Cooper added that in previous situations similar to this, the government had worked with airlines to bring people home on normal flights. Paul Charles, from travel consultancy firm the PC Agency, said the disruption in air travel in the Middle East was having a knock-on effect around the world. "Indeed at Sao Paolo airport yesterday I saw two Qatar airways planes still on the ground there because they can't fly to the Middle East at the moment," he said. "Flights are entirely full via other countries because the passengers who were due to go to the Middle East have to reroute via somewhere else in order to find safe haven." With additional reporting from Bernadette McCague The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Cornwall's Chamber of Commerce president says the route generated most of the airport's revenue. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Airport bosses want to encourage greener travel, but some taxi drivers are accusing them of greed. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Three days into the US strikes on Iran, President Donald Trump's war aims and vision for the future of the country remain opaque. Trump and senior administration officials have offered a wide range of views about what they hope to achieve in the largest American military operation in the Middle East in two decades - and whether or not the US supports regime change in Tehran. The administration initially said its goal was to destroy Iran's nuclear programme. But in the hours and days since, the rationale has shifted as Trump used an unconventional messaging strategy of social media posts and brief telephone interviews with reporters to signal his intentions. Trump laid out some of his objectives on Monday in his first public remarks at the White House since the start of the war. The US is seeking to destroy Iran's ballistic missile capabilities and navy, its ability to develop nuclear weapons, and support for proxy groups in the region, Trump said. He argued the broader purpose of the war was to protect the US and its allies from attacks by Iran. "An Iranian regime armed with long-range missiles and nuclear weapons would be an intolerable threat to the Middle East, but also to the American people," Trump said. But Trump made no mention of what Iran's future might look like after the war ends, or why he believed the country would no longer pose a threat to the US once this operation is completed. The remarks on Monday were a departure from his initial comments after launching the attack. On Saturday, Trump urged Iranians to "take back your government," which was widely interpreted as an implicit call for the overthrow of the regime led for decades by Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Trump touted Khamenei's death over the weekend, but is yet to give a sense of what he believes the succession plan should be. "The attack was so successful it knocked out most of the candidates," he told ABC News on Sunday night. "It's not going to be anybody that we were thinking of because they are all dead. Second or third place is dead." Trump's positions have at times seemed at odds with other top administration officials, including Secretary of Defense Pete Hegseth. Hegseth, speaking on Monday just hours before Trump's remarks at the White House, rejected the idea that the US attacked Iran with the express goal of toppling the regime. "This is not a so-called regime change war, but the regime sure did change," Hegseth said during a news conference with General Dan Caine, chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Hegseth said Operation Epic Fury would be a success, but he did not offer details on the scope or duration of the conflict. His confidence contrasted with remarks by Gen Caine, who offered a more sober assessment. America's military goals in Iran "will be difficult to achieve, and in some cases, will be difficult and gritty work," Caine said. He also warned that the US could suffer further casualties as the war drags on. So far, six US service members have been killed in retaliatory strikes by Iran, which have targeted Jordan, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates and other US allies in the region. Trump has also warned of more US casualties, while arguing that the sacrifice will be worth it to reshape the balance of power in the Middle East. Trump has framed the conflict in a broader historical context, claiming that he is poised to destroy the US and Israel's biggest adversary in the region. The president said on Monday that the US needed to strike Iran now, without offering a detailed explanation as to why. "This was our last best chance to strike," he said. By the afternoon, Secretary of State Marco Rubio offered what appeared to be a new rationale: the US attacked Iran "pre-emptively" after learning Israel was going to strike, which would have in turn led to retalition against US forces. "We knew that if we didn't preemptively go after them before they launched those attacks, we would suffer higher casualties," Rubio told reporters on Capitol Hill before briefing top lawmakers. The lack of detail or clear plan beyond the air campaign has sparked mounting criticism in Congress. Most Republicans have publicly thrown their support behind Trump, but Democrats have argued the president doesn't have a defined strategy and have warned the US could get pulled into a protracted conflict. "The Trump administration still has not given any detail on where Iran's nuclear programme was at," Representative Adam Smith, the ranking Democrat on the House Armed Services Committee, told NPR earlier on Monday. "We have not seen any specific intelligence, so I don't think there's any credible claim that there was an imminent threat coming from Iran, which is not to say Iran isn't a problem," he added. General David Petraeus, a former director of the CIA, told the BBC that the killing of Iran's supreme leader was a "historic achievement". But he warned that urging the Iranian people to rise up is risky. "Unfortunately, in most cases like this it is the guys who have the most guns and the most thugs and who are willing to be most brutal who prevail," he said. The regime's security forces, he added, are about a million-strong and have already shown they are willing to kill their own people. But the retired general, who is also a former commander of US forces in Iraq, said he did not think Trump would put US boots on the ground in Iran to achieve his objectives. "No, the president has clearly said that won't be the case - the vice-president has echoed that. And in a way I think they're trying to pre-emptively reassure the American people there won't be another long, tough, hard war such as we had in Iraq or Afghanistan," he said. Much of the criticism has stemmed in part from Trump's unusual approach in communicating with the public about the war. Presidents typically address the nation from the Oval Office or other high-profile settings to explain their thinking for sending troops into combat. President George W Bush gave several speeches from the White House to make his case for the US wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. President Barack Obama made a detailed argument for his decision to send more US troops to Afghanistan early on in his first term. In both cases, the US sent thousands of ground troops into combat. Trump has limited the attack on Iran to air strikes, as he did last year in a separate strike on Iran's nuclear facilities. He did not, however, rule out sending ground troops in the future "if they were necessary" in a brief telephone interview with the New York Post on Monday. Regardless, Trump's messaging strategy so far represents a break from past precedent. Trump announced the start of the attack in a video early on Saturday, then followed that up with posts on Truth Social. He also spent the weekend calling individual reporters and giving brief interviews in which he made numerous different claims about how long the war might last and what his wider goals might be. The president's remarks on Monday were widely anticipated, as observers sought clues on his thinking about the war three days into the conflict. But Trump kept his comments brief, and did not say what might come next for Iran or the rest of the region. He said the war was projected to last as long as "four to five weeks" but could also last "as long as it takes". "Whatever the time is, it's OK. Whatever it takes," Trump said. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US and Israel have said they have air superiority over parts of Iran, allowing their jets to strike targets at will. They have also displayed a kind of intelligence superiority, a dominance which has allowed them to find and kill multiple Iranian leaders. But what is the strategy behind this? One answer is a focus on causing confusion. The first move in the campaign was not the attack that struck the supreme leader's compound, but the hackers at US Cybercommand Space Command and their Israeli counterparts. They blinded Iran's ability to understand what was happening, stopping it from communicating and responding, according to US military officials. Using that advantage, senior leaders were struck in multiple locations. Those officials had been tracked over months by the CIA and Mossad, amongst others. That was most likely through long-standing technical penetration of the Iranian communications systems as well as human spies on the ground, often run by Mossad. The results were startling. The army chief of staff, defence minister and head of the Revolutionary Guards were among those killed. Israel is believed to have taken the lead on these strikes. The US said that it also went on to strike Iran's command and control, ballistic missile sites and also intelligence infrastructure in the opening salvos. The explicit aim of this was to "daze and confuse" the Iranians, said Dan Caine, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in a Monday briefing. The US and Israeli ambition was to paralyse Iran. However, Tehran was known to have prepared for the targeting of its leadership, with officials told to designate multiple successors in the event of their death (and to keep their identities secret). That awareness of the risk makes it even more surprising that some of the most senior people in the Iranian regime were meeting on Saturday morning - allowing so many to be killed. So what do the killings mean for the course of the war? In the short term it may make it harder for Iran to muster a response. The confusion caused by the targeting has advantages militarily but could also have risks. It is not clear if the volleys of missiles and drones being sent across the Middle East are the result of a pre-ordained policy which is now on auto-pilot, if local commanders are acting on their own initiative, or if someone centrally is issuing orders through a functioning chain of command. The next question is whether the elimination of so many leaders will fundamentally shift Iran's calculation about whether to continue to fight or find some way out. A CIA intelligence assessment completed just before the war began predicted that the removal of the supreme leader might lead to hardliners from the Revolutionary Guards taking more control. Any new leader will have to calculate whether regime survival will be ensured by continuing to fight - or, alternatively, talking and effectively giving in to US demands. But if they continue to be killed, it may be harder to come to any decision or negotiation. The US may want to see a figure like Delcy Rodríguez - who took over from Nicolas Maduro in Venezuela, and is understood to be cooperating with the US - but it is not clear if such a person exists or could lead the state. And so the last – even more significant question – is whether the killings makes it more likely there will be regime change? History suggests air power alone is rarely enough, and the US has shown no desire to put boots on the ground. It may be hoping that taking out security and intelligence forces may help a popular uprising to succeed this time, after protesters were crushed in January. President Trump called for just such an uprising again and even promised immunity for members of the security forces who laid down their weapons. But the regime is deeply embedded and will do whatever it can to cling to power. While future leadership is uncertain, the priority for Israel and the US appears to be to do as much damage as they can to the regime. If that results in change, it may be welcomed by the Iranian people - but the risks will fall on them. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Oil and gas prices have surged as Iran continues to launch strikes across the Middle East in response to ongoing attacks by the US and Israel. Natural gas prices spiked on Monday after QatarEnergy, one of the world's biggest exporters, halted production following "military attacks" on its facilities. Oil prices also jumped, with the global benchmark Brent crude briefly hitting $82 (£61) a barrel on Monday, after at least three ships were attacked near the Strait of Hormuz at the weekend. Iran warned vessels not to pass through the crucial waterway in the south of the country, through which about 20% of the world's oil and gas is shipped. In the US, the Nasdaq and S&P 500 stock market indexes opened down but regained those losses during Monday's trading and closed marginally higher. In London, the FTSE 100 share index closed down 1.2%, with the owner of British Airways recording the biggest fall in the index following the disruption to Middle East airspace. Banks such as Barclays, Standard Chartered, and HSBC also saw their share prices slide amid concerns that a sustained rise in energy prices risks fuelling inflation which, in turn, could lead to fewer interest rate cuts by central banks. Oil and defence firms were the biggest risers on the FTSE 100. In France, the CAC-40 index closed down 2.2%, while Germany's Dax extended earlier declines to close 2.6% lower. QatarEnergy, which is owned by the state, said that it had suspended producing liquefied natural gas (LNG) after the country's Ministry of Defence (MoD) said a drone launched from Iran targeted a facility in Ras Laffan Industrial City. Qatar's MoD also said a drone went after a water tank belonging to a power plant in Mesaieed, south of the capital Doha. Europe's benchmark gas price jumped 50% on Monday before closing 39% higher. Meanwhile in neighbouring Saudi Arabia, Aramco temporarily shut its major oil refinery at Ras Tanura on the coast after being hit by a drone. International shipping has almost come to a standstill at the entrance to the Strait of Hormuz, with analysts warning that a prolonged conflict could push energy prices even higher. The UK Maritime Trade Operations Centre (UKMTO) said that two vessels had been struck, and an "unknown projectile" was reported to have "exploded in very close proximity" to a third. "The market isn't panicking", Saul Kavonic, head of energy research at MST Marquee told the BBC. "There is more clarity that so far, oil transport and production infrastructure hasn't been a primary target by any side," he added. "The market will be watching for signs that traffic through the Strait of Hormuz returns, which would see oil prices subside again." But some analysts have warned it could go over $100 in the event of a prolonged conflict which could have a knock-on effect on inflation and interest rates. Robin Mills, chief executive at Dubai-based consultancy Qamar Energy and a former executive at oil giant Shell, said: "The jump in prices will feed through almost immediately because the oil traders are very much following the news too. "At the moment, oil prices are not particularly high, they are still below where they were even two years ago so we're not in full-blown oil crisis mode yet." On Sunday, the Opec+ group of oil producing nations agreed to increase their output by 206,000 barrels a day to help cushion any price rises, but some experts doubt this would help much. Edmund King, president of the AA, warned the disruption could drive up petrol prices around the world. "The turmoil and bombing across the Middle East will surely be a catalyst to disrupt oil distribution globally, which will inevitably lead to price hikes," he said. "The magnitude and duration of pump price increases depends on how long the conflict goes on." Subitha Subramaniam, chief economist and head of investment strategy at Sarasin & Partners, said if oil prices remained high for a sustained period: "It will start to cascade into other prices such as food, agriculture, industrial commodities and that's just going to really bleed into inflation." The pace of inflation has been easing in the UK, leading to the Bank of England cutting interests. Subramaniam suggested that the Bank may choose to leave interest rates unchanged at 3.75% for the moment despite recently signalling further cuts could be made. On Sunday, Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) said three tankers from the UK and US had been "struck by missiles and are burning". The UK and the US have not commented. The UKMTO said "multiple security incidents" had been reported across the Arabian Gulf and Gulf of Oman, and it had advised ships to "transit with caution". At least 150 tankers have dropped anchor in open Gulf waters beyond the Strait of Hormuz, although a handful of Iranian and Chinese vessels have passed through today, according to ship-tracking platform Kpler. "Because of Iran's threats, the strait is effectively closed," Homayoun Falakshahi from Kpler told BBC News. Danish container shipping group Maersk said in a statement on Sunday that it would pause sailings through the Bab el-Mandeb Strait and the Suez Canal and reroute ships around the Cape of Good Hope. You can also send us your questions by following this link The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Israel has intensified its attacks on Lebanon this week, hitting areas outside of Hezbollah's control on Tuesday. Strikes without warning hit a vehicle north of Beirut and the Jnah neighbourhood in the heart of the capital. Attacks also continued in the city's southern suburbs and the country's south, both where Hezbollah has a strong presence. A building was destroyed on the road to Beirut's airport after an evacuation order, and in the south, a strike hit a health facility, killing a paramedic, according to Lebanon's health ministry. Israel's military said it had hit Hezbollah infrastructure in Beirut and killed a senior commander and another senior figure from the Iran-backed armed group. Hezbollah joined the ongoing regional war on 2 March, sending missiles towards Israel, after the US and Israel attacked the armed group's ally Iran on 28 February. Israeli attacks have kept bombarding Lebanon as its troops have moved into the country's south. On Tuesday, a vehicle was targeted in the Mansourieh area, a predominantly Christian residential neighbourhood north of Beirut. Meanwhile, the Jnah neighbourhood in the heart of the capital was attacked after midnight. The Lebanese health ministry said the Al-Zahraa Hospital had received and treated "a number of those injured in the air strike". Hassan Jalwan, who lives near Jnah, told AFP he heard several "big explosions" overnight. "Nobody knows what's happening," he said, adding that "displaced people have been sleeping in the open" in the area. The Dahieh neighbourhood to the south of Beirut, where Hezbollah has a strong presence, continues to be a target. A building was destroyed on Tuesday in Ghobeiry on the road to the airport following an evacuation order. Also on Tuesday, Lebanon's health ministry said at least seven people had been killed by Israeli strikes in the country's south, including the paramedic. The number of health workers who have been killed since the start of the war has now reached 53. Earlier, the Lebanese army cleared its last positions in the south, pulling out from Ain Ibel and Rmeish villages a day after an army checkpoint was hit and a soldier was killed by an Israeli air strike, according to the Lebanese Armed Forces. The Israeli military has not appeared to have commented yet on the reported death. However, some residents of the villages refuse to leave. In the predominantly Christian village of Rmeish, Father Najib Al Amil appeared in a video on social media, where he said: "There is grass and soil. We rely on God and will stay in our village. We either all die together and lose our land or live and our villages will live with us." Israel has announced its decision to control large swathes of land in southern Lebanon - up to the Litani River, about 30km from the border with Israel - to create a buffer security zone. Israeli Defence Minister Israel Katz said Israel would keep security control over the territory even after the end of the current war against Hezbollah. The plan has drawn criticism from the UN. Hundreds of thousands of people have been forced to leave the south, but there are still tens of thousands who have refused to go. Supply lines to the south have been cut by Israel targeting bridges and infrastructure, making villages in the south uninhabitable. Katz said more than 600,000 displaced Lebanese residents would be "completely prohibited" from returning to that area until the safety of residents of northern Israel was guaranteed. The Israeli defence minister also said all houses in villages near the border in Lebanon will be destroyed "according to the model of Rafah and Beit Hanoun in Gaza". In total, 1,268 people in Lebanon have been killed since the beginning of the attacks, the country's health ministry said on Tuesday. More than one million people have been displaced, the UN reported. This is critical time for Lebanon and the residents of the south. Many see Israel's strategy in the south mimicking that of Gaza - destruction, depopulation and occupation. The government said earlier that this constitutes a violation of the country's sovereignty. South Lebanon previously lived under Israeli occupation for nearly 18 years, between 1982 and 2000. Some Lebanese have lived the displacement and loss of land generation after generation. Many in Lebanon believe that Israel is more powerful than Hezbollah and capable of destroying the south with its advanced missiles and drones. At the same time, if Israel is to stay in the south, Hezbollah is more powerful on the ground and can engage in a guerrilla war to wear out the Israelis and prevent them from staying put. In short, for the hundreds of thousands who have been forced out of their homes, this war is not ending anytime soon. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. McEntee was to travel to the country to meet Irish peacekeepers stationed in the region as part of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (Unifil). Defence Minister Israel Katz also says houses in Lebanese villages near the Israeli border will be demolished. Initial findings suggest a roadside explosion struck their convoy, the UN's peacekeeping chief says. The Israeli military confirms it killed Ali Shoeib and Mohamed Ftouni, alleging they also belonged to Hezbollah's military wing. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Israel's defence minister has said a buffer zone will be set up inside southern Lebanon and that Israel will keep security control over a swathe of the territory even after the end of the current war against the armed group Hezbollah. Israel Katz said the area to be occupied would go up to the Litani River in southern Lebanon - about 30km (18.6 miles) from the border with Israel. He also said all houses in Lebanese villages near the Israeli border would be demolished. Lebanon's Defence Minister Maj Gen Michel Menassa said Katz's remarks reflected "a clear intention to impose a new occupation of Lebanese territory". European nations, Canada and the UN also criticised Israel's announcement. Israel sent ground troops into southern Lebanon on 2 March and has also been launching broad strikes across the country. The action was taken after Hezbollah fired rockets into northern Israel in retaliation for Israel's assassination of Iran's supreme leader in late February, at the start of the war with Iran. Israel was also carrying out near-daily strikes on Hezbollah before that despite a ceasefire that was agreed in 2024. Since early March, at least 1,238 people have been killed in Lebanon, according to the Lebanese health ministry, including at least 124 children. The UN's humanitarian affairs office says 52 health workers have also been killed. In the same period, 10 Israeli soldiers and two Israeli civilians have been killed by Hezbollah attacks, Israeli authorities say. Others killed in the south in recent days include three Indonesian peacekeepers, and three Lebanese journalists, according to the UN and the Lebanese health ministry. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) confirmed it killed two of the journalists, describing them as "terrorists" without providing evidence to back up its claims. It also said it was aware of reports a female journalist was killed. It has not yet been established who killed the peacekeepers. More than a million people - roughly one in every six in the country - have also been displaced, worsening an existing humanitarian crisis in Lebanon. Israeli officials say the aim is to protect communities in northern Israel from Hezbollah attacks. Speaking in a video statement published by the defence ministry on Tuesday, Katz gave further details on Israel's military intentions in southern Lebanon. "At the end of the operation, the IDF will establish itself in a security zone inside Lebanon, on a defensive line against anti-tank missiles, and will maintain security control over the entire area up to the Litani." "In addition, the return of more than 600,000 residents of southern Lebanon who evacuated northward will be completely prohibited south of the Litani until the safety and security of northern residents are ensured," he added. "All houses in villages near the border in Lebanon will be destroyed - according to the model of Rafah and Beit Hanoun in Gaza - to remove, once and for all, the threats near the border to northern residents," he said. Katz had already announced the intention to create a buffer zone in the south of Lebanon earlier in the month. He had also already said displaced residents would not be allowed back until northern Israel was safe and that houses would be demolished. But his latest statement goes a step further than his last, as he said Israeli troops would stay in the region after Israel's war with Hezbollah ends. Lebanon's defence minister said Katz's remarks were "no longer mere threats", but reflected "a clear intention to impose a new occupation of Lebanese territory, forcibly displace hundreds of thousands of citizens, and systematically destroy villages and towns in the south". Addressing the UN Security Council from Beirut on Tuesday, UN aid chief Tom Fletcher said "the current escalation is compounding a situation that is already critical". He said 51 primary healthcare centres and four hospitals had closed due to hostilities, with others damaged or operating at reduced capacities. "Given the intensity of the coercive displacement that we are seeing, how should we prepare, collectively as the international community, for a new addition to the list of occupied territories?" Fletcher asked the council. Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney called Israel's deployment of ground troops in Lebanon an "illegal invasion", which violates its "integrity and sovereignty". "The government of Lebanon has banned Hezbollah, is taking action, is trying to take action against Hezbollah and their terrorist activities and their threats to Israel, and that is the purported justification for this invasion," Carney said. A joint statement signed by the foreign ministers of 10 European countries, including the UK, France and Italy, as well as EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas, urged Israel to avoid widening its military operations in Lebanon and to respect the country's territorial integrity. They expressed their "full support to the government and the people of Lebanon, who are once again suffering the dramatic consequences of a war that is not theirs". The ministers added that "the responsibility for the situation lies with Hezbollah", and called for the group to stop its attacks in support of Iran against Israel. Southern Lebanon is the heartland of Lebanon's Shia Muslim community, Hezbollah's main support base. But it is also home to other communities, including Christians. The latest Israeli ground invasion has already caused widespread alarm among the Lebanese. Under the ceasefire agreement that ended the war in 2024, Hezbollah was meant to disarm and leave its positions in the south. This was to be supervised by the Lebanese government and army. Progress was made, but it was partial. Israel also maintained several military posts in the south and continued to carry out regular attacks on what it said were Hezbollah targets. The will may have been there for the Lebanese government to disarm Hezbollah, but it has always lacked the ability to do so. The prospect of a major confrontation between the Lebanese state and Hezbollah has also long been a major concern, reawakening fears of a descent back into civil war. Katz previously said that Israel was taking action because the Lebanese government had done "nothing". Lebanon's President Joseph Aoun has described the Israeli plans as a "collective punishment against civilians", and that they could be part of "suspicious schemes" to pursue an expansion of Israel's presence in Lebanese territory. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. The White House says it is making the entire region safer by eliminating short and long-term threats. McEntee was to travel to the country to meet Irish peacekeepers stationed in the region as part of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (Unifil). The BBC's chief international correspondent analyses the US President's latest White House address. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Israel's parliament has approved a law that would make the death penalty the default sentence for Palestinians convicted of deadly terror attacks. Critics, including UN human rights chief Volker Türk, have described the new law as discriminatory. Türk also said its application would "constitute a war crime". The new law passed its third and final reading in the Knesset by 62 votes to 48 on Monday, with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu voting in favour. The bill stipulates that Palestinians convicted in Israeli military courts of carrying out deadly attacks deemed to be "acts of terrorism" would be executed by hanging within 90 days, with a possible postponement of up to 180 days. In theory, Jewish Israelis could also be executed under the law - but in practice this almost certainly would not happen, as the death penalty could only be carried out where the intention of the attack was to "negate the existence of the state of Israel". The legislation was pushed hard by the far-right, with the National Security Minister Itamar Ben-Gvir its driving force. After the vote, he posted on X: "We made history!!! We promised. We delivered." A member of Ben-Gvir's party, Limor Son-Har-Melech, who survived an attack by Palestinian gunmen in which her husband was killed, argued that the law was necessary, citing the example of how one of her husband's killers was later released and went on to take part in the 7 October 2023 attacks on Israel. During the debate in the Knesset, she said: "For years, we endured a cruel cycle of terror, imprisonment, release in reckless deals, and the return of these human monsters to murder Jews again." But Yair Golan, the leader of opposition Democrats party, criticised the legislation and said it would lead to international sanctions. "The death penalty law for terrorists is an unnecessary piece of legislation designed to get Ben-Gvir more likes," he said. "It does not contribute one ounce to Israel's security." Speaking the day after the vote, Turk, the UN's high commissioner for human rights, said the bill was "patently inconsistent with Israel's international law obligations". "The death penalty is profoundly difficult to reconcile with human dignity, and it raises the unacceptable risk of executing innocent people," he said in a statement. "Its application in a discriminatory manner would constitute an additional, particularly egregious violation of international law. Its application to residents of the occupied Palestinian territory would constitute a war crime." Ahead of the vote, the UK, France, Germany and Italy expressed their "deep concern", saying the bill risked "undermining Israel's commitments with regard to democratic principles". The Palestinian Authority, which administers the West Bank, condemned the law, saying it "seeks to legitimise extrajudicial killing under legislative cover". And Hamas, which controls Gaza, said in a statement on Monday evening that the approval of the bill "threatens the lives" of Palestinian prisoners in Israeli jails, and called on the international community to "ensure the protection of our prisoners". Amnesty International urged Israeli authorities to repeal the new law. "Israel is brazenly granting itself carte blanche to execute Palestinians while stripping away the most basic fair-trial safeguards", said Erika Guevara-Rosas, the rights group's senior director of research, advocacy, policy and campaigns. The Association for Civil Rights in Israel has already petitioned the country's Supreme Court against the law. "The law is unconstitutional, discriminatory by design and - for West Bank Palestinians - enacted without legal authority," it said in a statement. The Supreme Court will now have to consider whether to hear the challenge to the bill. Israel has only executed two people in its history - one of them the infamous Nazi official Adolf Eichmann, who played an important role in perpetrating the Holocaust. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The White House says it is making the entire region safer by eliminating short and long-term threats. The BBC's chief international correspondent analyses the US President's latest White House address. The strikes, which Iran says were first launched by Israel in co-ordination with the US last week, could cause major damage to the Iranian economy. The president also called on countries reliant on the Strait of Hormuz to 'build up the courage' to secure it. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two Indonesian peacekeepers were killed in southern Lebanon on Monday when an "explosion of unknown origin destroyed their vehicle", the UN agency tasked with policing the region has said. A third peacekeeper was "severely" injured in the explosion, and a fourth was hurt, the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (Unifil) said on Monday. Initial findings suggest a roadside explosion struck their convoy, UN peacekeeping chief Jean-Pierre Lacroix said the following day. It was the second fatal incident in 24 hours, Unifil noted. A peacekeeper - who was also Indonesian - was killed on Sunday when a projectile, also of unknown origin, exploded in Adchit Al Qusayr, southern Lebanon. Unifil said it had launched investigations to determine what happened in both incidents. The deaths come shortly after the Israeli military announced it would step up ground and air attacks against the Lebanese armed group Hezbollah. Hezbollah, an Iranian-backed militia as well as a political party, has fired rockets into Israel in retaliation for the ongoing US-Israeli strikes on Iran. In a statement on Telegram, the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) said the incidents were being "thoroughly reviewed in order to clarify the circumstances and determine whether they resulted from Hezbollah activity or from IDF activity." "It should be noted these incidents occurred in an active combat area. Therefore, it should not be assumed that incidents in which UNIFIL soldiers were harmed were caused by the IDF." Stéphane Dujarric, spokesperson for the UN Secretary-General, said the peacekeepers were "soldiers sent there on behalf of the international community... and everyone needs to ensure that they are protected and never targeted". He urged Lebanon and Israel to use the Unifil mechanism for dialogue, saying "the bottom line is that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Lebanon needs to be respected". Separately, the IDF said early on Tuesday that four of its soldiers had been killed in combat in southern Lebanon. Another soldier was severely wounded and a reservist moderately wounded, the IDF said. Unifil said of the two deaths on Monday: "We extend our sincerest condolences to the family, friends, and colleagues of those brave peacekeepers who gave their lives in service of peace." It said under international law, "all actors" had an obligation to ensure the "safety and security" on UN personnel. "Deliberate attacks" on peacekeepers were "grave violations" of international humanitarian law, Unifil said. "The human cost of this conflict is far too high. The violence, as we have said before, must end." After the soldier was killed on Sunday, the Indonesian Defense Forces (TNI) reaffirmed its commitment to the peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, according to the government-owned news agency Antara. "We remain committed to carrying out our duties as part of the world peacekeeping mission under the mandate of the United Nations (UN) professionally and responsibly, while prioritising the safety of our soldiers," Major General Aulia Dwi Nasrullah told Antara. Antara named the soldier killed on Sunday as Chief Private Farizal Rhomadhon. Unifil was created by the UN Security Council in 1978, and has since served as a buffer between Israel and Lebanon. The peacekeeping force patrols the "Blue Line" - the de facto border between Lebanon and Israel, in collaboration with the Lebanese army. Around 339 peacekeepers have been killed since the mission was established. Despite a November 2024 ceasefire between Israel and Hezbollah, brokered after violence flared between the two over the war in Gaza, Israel has conducted near-daily strikes on Hezbollah targets. It says the armed group has not abided by the terms of the ceasefire - under which Hezbollah was meant to disarm and leave its positions in the south - and has accused Unifil and the Lebanese army of not doing enough to remove its militants from the region. Israel says its latest operation in southern Lebanon was intended to ensure the security of communities in the north. Since the ceasefire began, 1,238 people have been killed in Lebanon, according to the Lebanese health ministry, including 124 children. Earlier this month, four Ghanaian soldiers serving with Unifil were injured when their base was hit. Ghanaian Foreign Minister Samuel Okudzeto Ablakwa did not say who was responsible when speaking at a Commonwealth meeting on Sunday but said the bombing was "an attack on every principle that the UN Charter exists to defend". Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. The White House says it is making the entire region safer by eliminating short and long-term threats. McEntee was to travel to the country to meet Irish peacekeepers stationed in the region as part of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (Unifil). The BBC's chief international correspondent analyses the US President's latest White House address. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Israel's prime minister has said the Latin Patriarch of Jerusalem will now have "full and immediate access" to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, after police earlier prevented him from celebrating Palm Sunday Mass there. Benjamin Netanyahu said Cardinal Pierbattista Pizzaballa, the head of the Catholic Church in the Holy Land, had been asked not to enter out of concern for his safety as Iran had repeatedly targeted Jerusalem's holy sites with missiles. The decision to block the cardinal from entering Christianity's most sacred site had been criticised by several Western nations. Israel's police later said it had agreed a "mutual framework" with the Latin Patriarch for Easter celebrations. On Sunday, Cardinal Pizzaballa and the Reverend Francesco Ielpo were stopped outside the church, believed to be the site of Jesus Christ's crucifixion, as they were planning to hold a Mass to mark the start of Holy Week, Church authorities said. Cardinal Pizzaballa's office said it was "the first time in centuries" a Latin Patriarch had been turned away from the holy site on Palm Sunday, which marks Christ's return to Jerusalem. He and Rev Ielpo had been "compelled" to turn back from the church, where Christ was also believed to have been buried and subsequently resurrected, it said. A statement from the patriarchate on Sunday said: "This incident is a grave precedent and disregards the sensibilities of billions of people around the world, who during this week, look to Jerusalem." But in a later statement, released on Monday, Cardinal Pizzaballa's office said the matter had been "addressed and resolved" and expressed "sincere gratitude" to Israel's President Isaac Herzog for intervening in the matter. The cardinal's office said it hoped "appropriate arrangements will continue to be found, enabling prayer to take place in places of worship, particularly in the holy places of all religions". This was a matter of "profound importance to hundreds of millions of believers", it added. Before the decision was made to allow Cardinal Pizzaballa full access to the church, Netanyahu had said worshippers of "all faiths" had been asked not to visit sites in Jerusalem's Old City while it was being targeted, and that police had acted out of "special" safety concerns in this instance. Israeli police said all holy sites in the Old City had been closed to worshippers since the US-Israel war against Iran began on 28 February for security reasons, and that it had rejected the patriarchate's request for an exemption on Palm Sunday. The traditional Palm Sunday procession into the city had already been cancelled due to restrictions on public gatherings. Netanyahu said holy sites belonging to Christian, Jewish and Muslim worshippers alike had been "repeatedly targeted" by Iranian missiles in recent days. "In one strike, missile fragments crashed meters from the Church of the Holy Sepulchre," he said in a statement on X, adding that Sunday's decision involved "no malicious intent whatsoever". Then, late on Sunday night, Netanyahu announced he had instructed relevant authorities to grant the Latin Patriarch "full and immediate access" to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre so he can "hold services as he wishes". Israel's police said on Monday that officers had met Cardinal Pizzaballa to work out how to accomodate Easter ceremonies, and that the Holy Fire - the lighting of a flame at the Church of the Holy Sepulchre on the Saturday before Easter - would be held in a "symbolic, limited format". The force added: "This co-ordination ensures that freedom of worship is maintained alongside our shared, primary duty: the protection of human life." The initial decision to bar the Latin Patriarch from the holy site attracted criticism from several countries, including some of Israel's allies. The US ambassador to Israel, Mike Huckabee, said on Sunday that the move to stop the cardinal from accessing the church was "difficult to understand or justify", before crediting the Israeli government for resolving the matter. A US state department spokesperson later told the BBC that it encouraged the Israeli government to "facilitate the safe observance of Holy Week", while noting "the difficult security conditions in Jerusalem that have arisen from Iran's ongoing, indiscriminate missile attacks". Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni criticised the lack of access as "an offence not only against believers but against every community that recognises religious freedom". French President Emmanuel Macron had likewise condemned the move and said it came in the context of "the worrying increase in violations of the status of the holy places in Jerusalem". "Freedom to hold religious rites in Jerusalem must be ensured for all religions," he said in a statement on X. And Pope Leo XIV, speaking in Rome on Sunday, paid tribute to "the Christians of the Middle East, who suffer the consequences of a terrible conflict and in many cases cannot fully live the rites of these holy days". Herzog said he reaffirmed "Israel's unwavering commitment to freedom of religion for all faiths and to upholding the status quo at the holy sites of Jerusalem". Dame Sarah Mullally called for an 'end to the violence and destruction' before a congregation in Canterbury. Pope Leo XIV addressed thousands of worshippers gathered in St Peter's Square on Easter Sunday in his first address as pontiff. Bishop of Sodor and Man calls to reflect on shared unity this Easter despite global "uncertainty". Roberto Mazzarella has been on the run for more than a year and was living under a false name, police say. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Some old truths about warfare have been knocking on the door of the Oval Office in the month since US President Donald Trump and Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sent US and Israeli warplanes to bomb Iran. The failure to learn from the past means that Donald Trump now faces a stark choice. If he cannot get a deal with Iran, he can either try to declare a victory that will fool no-one, or escalate the war. The oldest of the old truths comes from the Prussian military strategist Helmuth von Moltke the Elder: "No plan survives first contact with the enemy." He was writing in 1871, the year Germany was unified as an empire, a moment that was as consequential for the security of Europe as this war might be for the security of the Middle East. Maybe Trump prefers the boxer Mike Tyson's modern version: "Everyone has a plan until they get hit." Even more relevant for Trump are the words of one of his predecessors, Dwight D. Eisenhower, the American general who commanded the D-Day landings in 1944 and went on to serve two terms as a Republican president of the United States in the 1950s. Eisenhower's version was "plans are worthless, but planning is everything". He meant that the discipline and process of making plans to fight a war make it possible to change course when the unexpected happens. For Trump, the unexpected item has been the resilience of the regime in Iran. It seems that he was hoping for a repeat of the US military's lightning-fast kidnap in January of the President of Venezuela Nicolás Maduro and his wife, Cilia Flores. They are now in prison in New York, facing trial. Maduro's deputy Delcy Rodríguez replaced him as president and is taking orders from Washington. Hoping for a repeat of the victory over Maduro suggests a yawning lack of comprehension of the differences between Venezuela and Iran. Eisenhower's adage on thinking ahead came in a speech in 1957. He had been the man in charge of planning and commanding the largest amphibious military operation in history, the invasion of western Europe on D-Day, so he knew what he was talking about. He went on to explain that when an unexpected emergency arises "the first thing you do is to take all the plans off the top shelf and throw them out the window and start once more. But if you haven't been planning you can't start to work, intelligently at least". "That is the reason it is so important to plan, to keep yourselves steeped in the character of the problem that you may one day be called upon to solve – or to help to solve." Far from capitulating or collapsing after Israel and the US killed Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on the first air strike of the war, the regime in Tehran is functioning and fighting back. It is playing a weak hand well. In contrast, Trump has given the impression that he is making it up as he goes along. He follows gut instincts, not the pages of intelligence and strategic advice that other presidents have ploughed through. Thirteen days into the war, Trump was asked by Fox News Radio when the war would end. He answered that he did not think that the war "would be long". As for ending it, it would be "when I feel it, feel it in my bones". He relies on an inner circle of advisers who are in their jobs to back up his decisions and make them happen. Speaking truth to power is not, it seems, in their job description. Relying on the president's instincts rather than a well-worked set of plans – even if they must be adapted or discarded – makes it harder to fight a war. The lack of clear political direction blunts the devastating firepower and effectiveness of the US armed forces. Four weeks ago, Trump and Netanyahu put their faith in a ferocious bombing campaign that killed not just the supreme leader but his closest advisors and has so far killed 1,464 Iranian civilians, according to HRANA, a US-based group that monitors human rights violations in Iran. The two leaders were expecting a quick victory. Both challenged Iranians to follow up their bombs with a popular uprising to topple the regime. But the regime in Tehran still stands, still fights back and Trump is finding out why his predecessors were never prepared to join Netanyahu in a war of choice to destroy the Islamic Republic. Opponents of the regime have not risen up. They're all too aware that in January government forces killed thousands of protesters. Official warnings have been broadcast telling anyone thinking of trying to repeat the protests that they will be treated as enemies of the state. The Iranian regime is an obdurate, ruthless, well-organised adversary. Founded after the 1979 revolution that overthrew the Shah, it was then forged in the deadly misery of the eight-year war with Iraq. The regime is built on institutions, not individuals, and reinforced by iron-clad religious beliefs and an ideology of martyrdom. That means that killing leaders, while undoubtedly shocking and disruptive, does not also become a death sentence for the regime. After January's killings, it will consider the deaths of many more Iranians, either at the hands of the regime's own forces or American and Israeli bombs as an acceptable price of survival. The Iranian regime could not hope to match the firepower of the US and Israel, but like Moltke, Tyson and Eisenhower, it has been making plans. It broadened the war, attacking its Gulf Arab neighbours as well as American bases on their territory and Israel, spreading the pain as widely as possible. Iran's effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz, the narrow entrance to the Gulf, has cut off roughly 20% of world oil supplies and sent global financial markets into a spin. Iran spent years and billions of dollars building up the network of allies and proxies that Iran called 'the axis of resistance' that included Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in Gaza and the West Bank to threaten and deter Israel. The Israelis have hit it very hard and effectively since the Gaza war started with the Hamas attacks of 7 October 2023. But Iran is now demonstrating that a geographical feature, the narrow Strait of Hormuz, can be an even more effective deterrent and threat than its ruinously expensive system of military alliances. Iran can enforce its control of the Strait with cheap drones that can be launched from hundreds of kilometres away in Iran's mountainous interior. Allies get killed. Geography stays the same. Short of capturing and occupying the cliffs on either side of the Strait, and a big stretch of Iranian land beyond them, the US and Israel – and the rest of the world – are discovering that the Iranian regime will demand a big say in the reopening of the Strait of Hormuz. As the former deputy commander of Nato, General Sir Richard Shirreff observed on the BBC Radio 4's Today programme, any war game working through the consequences of an attack on Iran would have shown that the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps would close the Strait of Hormuz. That gets back to the importance of planning how to start a war, how to end it and how to deal with the day after. Donald Trump and his inner circle, flushed with the prospect of a quick and easy victory,  seem to have skipped those steps. The 'axis of resistance' also includes the Houthis in Yemen. On Friday they fired a barrage of missiles at Israel for the first time since this war started with the airstrikes on Iran on 28 February. If the Houthis resume their attacks on shipping in the Red Sea, Saudi Arabia would lose its western sea route for oil exports to Asia. The Red Sea has its own choke point, the Bab al Mandab strait, as important for world trade as the Strait of Hormuz. If the Houthis decide to escalate by attacking shipping in Bab al Mandab and further south, as they did during the Gaza war, they would cut off the route from Asia to Europe through the Suez Canal. That would create an even worse global economic emergency. Netanyahu, in contrast to Trump, has been thinking in detail about this war since he started the political career that has made him Israel's longest-serving prime minister. On the first full day of the war against Iran, Netanyahu recorded a video statement on the roof of the tower block in Tel Aviv known as the Kirya, which houses Israel's military headquarters. He spoke with a clarity about Israel's war aims that has eluded Trump. That should not be a surprise. Going to war with Iran is a more straightforward proposition for Israel than the US. The preoccupations of a regional power are different to the much broader global challenges faced by the US. Netanyahu is convinced that he can ensure Israel's future security by doing as much damage as possible to the Islamic Republic. The war, he said in the video, was "to ensure our existence and our future", Netanyahu has always regarded Iran as Israel's most dangerous enemy. His critics say that preoccupation was one of the reasons for Israel's failure to detect and stop the Hamas attacks out of Gaza on 7 October 2023. He thanked the US military and Trump for their "assistance" and moved on to the point that for him is the heart of the matter. "This coalition of forces allows us to do what I have yearned to do for 40 years: smite the terror regime hip and thigh. This is what I promised – and this is what we shall do." Netanyahu and Israel's military establishment had at different times over his many years in office, looked into ways of going to war with Iran, destroying its nuclear facilities and ballistic missiles, and everything else that made it a threat to them. The conclusion in Israel was always that, while they could do Iran some serious damage, it would only be a setback for the regime. It became accepted wisdom that the only way to smash Iran's military capacity for a generation or more was in alliance with the US. But that required a president in the White House who was prepared to go to war alongside Israel, something that had never happened despite the two countries' close relationship and Israel's dependence on US military and diplomatic support. Netanyahu could never persuade a US president that it was in America's interests to go to war with Iran – until the second term of Donald J Trump. Despite America and Iran's bitter and toxic relationship since the Shah, a staunch US ally, was overthrown in 1979, successive US presidents believed that the best way of dealing with the Islamic Republic of Iran was to contain it. During America's occupation of Iraq, it did not go to war with Iran even when Tehran was equipping and training Iraqi militias who were killing US troops. The only justification, they calculated, would be an imminent threat, especially information that Iran was close to creating a nuclear weapon. Trump included a nuclear threat in his evolving list of reasons to go to war. But there is no credible evidence that Iran was about to get a weapon or the means to deliver one. Even the White House still has a statement on its website dated 25 June 2025 under the headline 'Iran's Nuclear Facilities Have Been Obliterated – and Suggestions Otherwise are Fake News.' Trump is now discovering why his predecessors decided that the risks of choosing to go to war would be just too great. The war looks to be turning into a classic example of how a smaller, weaker power can fight an enemy that is bigger and stronger, the kind of conflict that strategists call asymmetric warfare. It is early days, after only a month, to compare it to other wars that on paper the US was winning in terms of enemies killed and bombing raids completed in Vietnam, Iraq and Afghanistan. But it is important to remember that after years of bloodshed and killing, they all ended in ways that amounted to defeat for the United States. The next set of decisions by Trump and Netanyahu could decide whether the war in Iran becomes another major misstep by the US. Trump has now postponed twice his threat to destroy Iran's power network – which as described by him could amount to a war crime. He says that is because Iran is desperate to make a deal to end the war, as the regime has been hit so hard by the damage and death the US has already inflicted and fear that it might do even more. Contacts between the two sides, via the mediation of Pakistan and others, are taking place. The Iranians deny Trump's assertion that it is a full-blown negotiation. An official text of the president's 15-point plan for peace has not been published, but leaked versions show a document that is a compilation of all the demands the US and Israel have made of Iran over many years. It reads more like terms of surrender rather than a basis for negotiation. Iran has countered with its own demands, equally unacceptable to the other side, including recognition of its control of the Strait of Hormuz, reparations for war damage, and the removal of American bases from the Middle East. Unless both sides can make a giant leap into an unexplored middle ground of compromise, it is hard to see a deal being made. It is not impossible. The Iranian regime has a history of negotiation. Arab diplomatic sources have backed up other reports, telling me that Iran was offering a path towards a deal on its nuclear programme when the US abruptly abandoned diplomacy by going to war on 28 February. One source told me: "You know the Iranians were offering everything." That sounds like an over-simplification, and the Americans deny progress was being made, but the signs are there was room for more diplomacy when the US and Israel sent in bombers. The war is at a critical point. If there is no deal between the Americans and the Iranians, Trump has very few choices. He could declare victory, saying America has destroyed Iran's military, therefore it is mission accomplished, and that opening the Strait of Hormuz is not his responsibility. That could melt down world financial markets and horrify his already disgruntled allies in Europe, Asia and the Gulf. A wounded, angry Iranian regime would have plenty of scope to put more pressure on the world economy. More likely, Trump would decide to escalate the war. The Americans have more than 4,000 US Marines on ships heading to the Gulf, paratroopers from the 82nd Airborne on standby and are discussing further reinforcements. No-one is talking about a full-scale invasion of Iran, but it is possible the Americans will try to capture islands in the Gulf, including Kharg island, Iran's main oil terminal. That would involve a series of challenging and dangerous amphibious landings. That might even suit Iran, which wants to drag the Americans into a longer war of attrition. Iran calculates that the regime's capacity for pain is greater than Trump's. Trump has found in Iran that he is coming up against the limits of his power. The Iranian regime has a different definition of victory and defeat than he does. For them, mere survival is victory. But now they are hoping for more, believing that control of the Strait of Hormuz gives them new leverage to make demands, perhaps even to make strategic gains. The Iranians have demanded, among other things, a promise not to be attacked in future and recognition of their control of the Strait of Hormuz as a price for opening it to all shipping. The White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said ‌on Wednesday that "President Trump does not bluff and he is prepared to unleash hell. Iran should not miscalculate again". "If Iran fails to accept the reality of the current moment, if they fail to understand that they have been defeated militarily, and will continue to be, President Trump will ⁠ensure they are hit harder than they have ever been hit before." Being defeated in war is not a choice. If Iran had been as badly beaten as Trump and his people say, the regime in Tehran would have collapsed by now. He would not need to threaten them into accepting their fate. America and Israel can do much more damage and kill many more people in Iran. In Lebanon, Israel is pressing ahead with its offensive against Hezbollah, Iran's main ally. In the absence of a ceasefire, they calculate that they can raise the level of force until the Iranians have no choice but to yield. The longer the war continues, the greater the consequences for the region and for the wider world. One leading Iran analyst, Ali Vaez of the International Crisis Group told me they could be "catastrophic". In 1956 the United Kingdom and France went to war alongside Israel after the Egyptian president Gamal Abdul Nasser nationalised the Suez Canal, a global waterway that was as significant a chokepoint for the world economy as the Strait of Hormuz is now. They attained all their military objectives but were forced to withdraw by President Eisenhower of the United States. For the British, it was the beginning of the end of their imperial domination of the Middle East. America is faced by the rise of China. When the history is written of their competition to be the world's strongest power, Trump's badly planned war against Iran might be seen as a turning point, a waystation of decline, as Suez was for the United Kingdom. BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. Emma Barnett and John Simpson bring their pick of the most thought-provoking deep reads and analysis, every Saturday. Sign up for the newsletter here The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Iran-backed Houthis in Yemen say they have launched a barrage of missiles against Israel - the first since the start of the US-Israel war with Iran. The group said in a statement that it had targeted "sensitive Israeli military sites" and vowed to continue such attacks. Israel said it had shot down two missiles coming from Yemen. The entry of the powerful Iranian proxy into the conflict raises fears of further disruption to the world economy as the armed group has capacity to attack shipping in the Red Sea. Houthis consider themselves to be part of a so-called "axis of resistance" that also includes other groups financed by Iran, such as the Hezbollah in Lebanon and Hamas in the Gaza Strip. Yemen has been devastated by a civil war that began 12 years ago, when the Houthis seized control of the country's north-west from the internationally recognised government and a Saudi-led coalition supported by the US intervened in an effort to restore its rule. Crucially, they control the Yemen's Red Sea coastline. The involvement of the group in the conflict that began with US and Israeli strikes on Iran on 28 February had been largely expected. Prior to launching Saturday's attack, their military spokesman issued a statement saying their hands were "on the trigger for direct military intervention" if any countries joined the US-Israeli strikes or the Red Sea was used for military operations against Iran. A few hours later, they confirmed they had launched "a salvo of ballistic missiles" and attacks would continue "until the aggression against all resistance fronts ceases" - an apparent reference to Israel's escalation of operations against the Hezbollah. Later on Saturday, the Houthis said a second wave of missiles and drones had been launched against Israel. US and Israeli attacks against Iran have continued unabated, even as US President Donald Trump says he has postponed a threatened attack on Iran's power plants if it does not reopen the strategic Strait of Hormuz to shipping by 6 April. About 20% of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas typically passes through the waterway. Its closure has caused the price of oil to skyrocket and has raised concerns that a prolonged blockage could raise energy prices - and even lead to a severe contraction in the economies of many countries. Trump says Iran is desperate to reach a deal to end the war and is involved in talks with the US to do so - which Tehran denies. There is a large distance between Israel and Yemen, and Israel has been successful in intercepting Houthi missiles in the past. But the armed group has previously attacked vessels in the Bab al-Mandab Strait, which ships use to access the Red Sea and, ultimately, the Suez Canal from the Indian Ocean. From November 2023 to early 2025, the Houthis launched almost 200 attacks on ships in the Red Sea, damaging over 30 vessels and hijacking at least one. The attacks forced even major shipping companies to stop using the Red Sea - through which almost 15% of global seaborne trade usually passes - and take a much longer route around southern Africa instead. The US and UK carried out air strikes on Houthi targets in Yemen in January 2024 and in March 2025 following the attacks. The effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz by Iran has forced Saudi Arabia to divert oil through a pipeline to its Red Sea coast, with shipments bound for the Asian market then sailing south past Yemen - making Bal al-Mandab the main channel for these shipments. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A funeral has been held in a southern Lebanese village for an 11-year-old boy and his uncle who were killed in an Israeli air strike. Jawad Younes and 41-year-old Ragheb Younes were laid to rest in Saksakiyeh on Saturday after their family compound was hit a day earlier. They are among the latest casualties in Israel's offensive against the Iran-backed armed group Hezbollah, after the group fired rockets into Israel earlier this month amid the war between the US and Israel against Iran. Lebanese health officials say more than 1,100 people have been killed since the escalation began, with civilians increasingly caught in the crossfire. The Israeli military did not respond to a request for comment on the intended target of the strike that hit the Younes family compound. Hundreds gathered in Saksakiyeh town centre for Jawad and Ragheb's funeral. Women dressed in black robes wailed over the bodies, one of which was draped in Hezbollah's yellow flag - a reflection of the group's support in this largely Shia area. Malak Meslmani, Jawad's mother, sat beside her son's body with tears streaming down her face. "My son is gentle and pure," she told the BBC. "He loved the idea of martyrdom, and when he grew up, he wanted to be with the resistance. "He wanted to resist the enemy Israel who killed him." As the funeral procession made its way to the grave site, the sound of Israeli air strikes echoed in the distance. Plumes of smoke rose above nearby hilltops. The strike on the Younes family home happened shortly after 13:00 (11:00 GMT) on Friday. Jawad's father, Hussein Younes, said his son had been playing football with his nine cousins at the time. Standing in front of the ruins of his home, Jawad's father threw his hands in the air, and shouted: "I don't know! I don't know!", when asked why the Israeli military had targeted the house. "If this was a military base, no kids would be here," he told the BBC. The BBC spoke to multiple members of the family and local council members who all said the family had no involvement with Hezbollah militarily. Five people survived the attack, and those wounded were taken to a nearby hospital. Among them was Jawad's aunt, Zeinab. "Before it happened, me and my husband were inside," she said, speaking through tears from her hospital bed. "We didn't see anything, and we didn't hear anything... Then I found myself under a pile of rubble." Zeinab is being treated for a broken spine and a fractured leg. Doctors say they are hopeful she will walk again, but she is likely to require extensive surgery. She said there had been no warning ahead of the strike, and that the family would have fled had they been alerted. Jaward and Ragheb's burial comes just a day after another family in the same neighbourhood buried two children and their mother. They were also killed in Israeli bombardment amid another wave of deadly strikes across southern Lebanon. On Saturday, three Lebanese journalists were killed in a targeted Israeli strike on their media vehicle, their employers said. Ali Shoeib, a well-known correspondent for Al Manar TV, a station affiliated with Hezbollah, was killed alongside reporter Fatima Ftouni and cameraman Mohamed Ftouni from the channel Al Mayadeen, according to the stations. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) confirmed it had killed Shoeib, describing him as a "terrorist" from Iranian-backed Hezbollah's elite Radwan Force who had "operated for years under the guise of a journalist". The IDF provided no evidence to support its claim that Shoeib had a military role. It did not comment on the deaths of Fatima or Mohamed Ftouni. Lebanese President Joseph Aoun called the strike a "brazen crime" that violated all norms under which journalists should be protected during war. The Committee to Protect Journalists has previously accused Israel of repeatedly killing media professionals while alleging they were militants without providing credible evidence. Also on Saturday, an Israeli air strike killed five paramedics in the town of Zoutar. Human rights groups say Israel's repeated attacks on healthcare workers in Lebanon could amount to war crimes. Since 2 March, Israeli air strikes have battered towns and villages across Lebanon, while ground forces continue to advance in the south as part of an ongoing offensive. Israel says its operations are aimed at Hezbollah targets, but civilians are frequently among those killed. On Friday, the UN's refugee agency warned that Lebanon was facing a worsening humanitarian crisis that could become catastrophic, with more than one million people now displaced. Lebanon remains trapped in a cycle of violence, with Israel and Hezbollah both vowing to continue the fight despite the mounting human cost. Many, like the surviving members of the Younes family, say they are willing to pay the price. "We are not afraid of the war, because we are not afraid of death," Zainab's son Ali said. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The advisory follows recent military developments, including a US jet reportedly being shot down and Israeli strikes on parts of Beirut. The White House says it is making the entire region safer by eliminating short and long-term threats. McEntee was to travel to the country to meet Irish peacekeepers stationed in the region as part of the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (Unifil). The BBC's chief international correspondent analyses the US President's latest White House address. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Nearly six months after a fragile ceasefire came into force in Gaza, Palestinians in this war-torn territory are still struggling. In the markets, there are again shortages of some goods and rising prices – with merchants saying supplies brought in from Israel have been disrupted by the new war in the region. "What does the war between Iran and Israel have to do with us? Prices have doubled here. Goods aren't coming in like before," says a shopper, Hassan Faqawi, despairingly.  "In this situation, the whole world is focused on Iran, America and Israel, and Gaza is forgotten." While world attention has turned to the Iran war, there is increasing uncertainty about what happens in Gaza at a crucial stage in President Trump's 20-point peace plan, which halted the fighting in October last year. In the past week at the UN Security Council, the High Representative for Gaza on the US-led Board of Peace, Nickolay Mladenov, laid out a detailed plan for Palestinian armed groups to decommission their weapons - linking compliance to the start of reconstruction. But a Palestinian official familiar with Hamas affairs told the BBC it was likely that Hamas, whose October 2023 attack on Israel triggered the war, would reject the proposals. That raises the prospect of a return to a full-force military offensive with Israel's prime minister demanding that Hamas disarms "either the easy way or the hard way." Heavy rain in recent weeks caused sewage systems to overflow in crowded tent camps. Although the Trump plan pledged the immediate resumption of "full aid" to Gaza, with rehabilitation of essential infrastructure - for water, sewage and electricity - as well as the equipment needed to clear rubble, humanitarian agencies say much more needs to be done. Reconstruction materials are not yet allowed by Israel to enter, on the grounds that they could be used by Hamas to build tunnels and weaponry. "You know a huge amount of our effort is spent negotiating for the smallest crumbs, like a crossing to reopen or a few litres of fuel. So, progress towards recovery is limited and almost not there, really," says Bushra Khalidi, Policy Lead for Oxfam, based in Ramallah. "We're not seeing large-scale debris removal, we're not seeing proper rehabilitation of underground infrastructure, and there's still nowhere near enough fuel to run power systems. So, this is basic survival in Gaza." In a statement to the BBC, Cogat, the Israeli army body responsible for managing the crossings, denied there were aid shortages and accused Hamas of exploiting resources. Despite a ceasefire, Israeli air strikes in Gaza have continued. Dozens of Palestinians – including children – have been killed since the outbreak of the Iran war at the end of February. Israel says it is targeting Hamas, with commanders of its military wing and police officers among the dead. While Hamas publicly welcomed the creation of a new 15-member Palestinian technocratic committee - an apolitical body to temporarily run Gaza - and pledged to hand over governance, there are signs that the group is reasserting its authority. Sources told the BBC that the Hamas Interior Ministry has restructured its executive apparatus, appointing new police directors, setting up temporary headquarters and detention facilities and deploying new security patrols. Witnesses say masked men in military style uniforms have set up dozens of checkpoints, stopping and searching vehicles and passers-by after nine o'clock at night. Meanwhile, traders and shopkeepers complain that Hamas has imposed heavy taxes on goods and services – pushing up prices in Gaza even further. Gazans express frustration with the situation. "Unfortunately, no-one is controlling Gaza right now except Hamas," says a displaced woman, Hanaa.  "We pray to God that peace will be imposed, and that the national committee will come and control Gaza." Speaking to the BBC, a senior official in the National Committee for Gaza Administration, which reports to Trump's Board of Peace, said: "There is no date yet for a return to Gaza." At the UN on Tuesday, Nikolay Mladenov, High Representative for Gaza on the Board of Peace, laid out what he said was a comprehensive framework to decommission the weapons of Palestinian armed groups - starting with "the most dangerous weapons, rockets, heavy munitions, explosive devices and assault rifles." "The laying down of arms by militant actors would represent a decisive break from cycles of violence that have defined life in Gaza for decades," he said. "For the people of Gaza, the implications are profound: Israeli military withdrawal and reconstruction at scale." Mladenov told the Security Council that the choice was between "a renewed war, or a new beginning". The Palestinian source close to Hamas who spoke to the BBC said that the group had received proposals to disarm in exchange for the phased pullout of Israeli troops from Gaza over a period of six to nine months.  The official expected Hamas to reject the plan. A Hamas leader Bassem Naim criticised Mladenov's approach. In a statement, he said Mladenov was linking all key issues including the entry of the technocratic committee and international forces into the Gaza Strip to Hamas's weapons. Bassem Naim suggested that the new proposals contradicted the October 2025 Sharm el-Sheikh agreement and UN Security Council resolution 2803, which endorsed the Trump peace plan. He said Mladenov was trying to "reshape the process" to suit Israel's agenda, with "no real guarantees" offered for implementing future commitments. There was no immediate response from Mladenov. After a high-profile signing ceremony to launch the Board of Peace at January's World Economic Forum in Davos and a meeting last month in Washington at which $7bn (£5.3bn; 6.5bn euros) were pledged for Gaza's reconstruction, some commentators suggest that the ceasefire process now looks stuck. "There's still a lot of distrust about whether this programme can actually move forwards," says Amjad Iraqi, Senior Analyst from the International Crisis Group.  "There's a lot of pressure on Hamas to have to accept it, including from mediators as their attention drifts toward Iran." At the UN, the Palestinian envoy Riyad Mansour, continues to endorse the Trump peace plan.  He remains hopeful that Nickolay Mladenov can advance his framework for disarmament. "It is complicated," he tells us, "but it seems that he is determined, and he is in charge of this process at the Board of Peace so there are powerful forces behind him." The ambassador stressed that work is being done with the new technocratic committee to get 200,000 temporary housing units into the strip. Some 5,000 new Palestinian police officers for Gaza are said to have been recruited, with many trained in Egypt.  Ultimately, they are meant to serve alongside an International Stabilisation Force. But Mansour said this was only the "beginning".  "We will see in the coming weeks and months how this second phase of the plan will be implemented, and of course to keep the issue alive while other things are happening in the wider region is important." In Gaza, the lull in violence has given a glimpse of more hopeful possibilities if the push for peace succeeds.  But continuing setbacks mean many Palestinians are increasingly sceptical about the prospects for the Trump plan, fearing that it could break down while international attention is focused elsewhere. Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. The White House says it is making the entire region safer by eliminating short and long-term threats. The BBC's chief international correspondent analyses the US President's latest White House address. The strikes, which Iran says were first launched by Israel in co-ordination with the US last week, could cause major damage to the Iranian economy. The president also called on countries reliant on the Strait of Hormuz to 'build up the courage' to secure it. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An ambulance filled with medical supplies is being sent to support frontline medics in Ukraine. The vehicle departed from Northampton on Sunday and is travelling 1,650 miles (2,655km) to Kyiv, where it will be handed to charity Ukraine-Mother before being passed to military paramedics in Sumy. The ambulance has been funded through donations of almost £8,000 to Caritas, the charity arm of the Catholic Diocese of Northampton, while a further £3,500 was contributed by Tove Benefice church in Towcester. Steve Challen, from Tove Benefice, said: "These items will help paramedics save lives and support medical stabilisation facilities which treat the injured before they are transferred to hospitals." The ambulance has around 950kg of medical equipment on board, including defibrillators, humanitarian aid and battery packs. Contributions also came from Brackley School and Brackley Round Table, which together donated 200kg of supplies. The delivery follows one of Ukraine's coldest winters in more than a decade, with temperatures dropping below -20C (-4F), and comes four years after Russia's full-scale invasion. Many hospitals and essential medical facilities have been damaged or destroyed. Two volunteers from the Tove Benefice will drive the ambulance across Europe before returning via Poland to England. Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. Its website says it is not taking any bookings on Saturday "due to unforeseen circumstances". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Bottles and cans are exchanged for a printed ticket that can be swapped for rewards. Det Con Jamie Yates says the incident was a "particularly violent, unprovoked attack". All buildings are demolished and a public consultation on the project will begin very soon. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Warning: This piece refers to scenes of violence from the start When a video went viral appearing to show a Hungarian soldier's execution, its disturbing nature came as a shock to anyone who saw it. Ahead of pivotal Hungarian elections on Sunday 12 April, the AI-generated, fake clip was posted on the social media accounts of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's Fidesz party in February. It tells the story of a young girl at a window yearning for her father's return home from war, and then the video cuts to him - blindfolded, bound by the hands, and then shot by his captors. The video targeted Orbán's election rival, Péter Magyar, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. The Fidesz campaign has made unsubstantiated claims about the war in Ukraine and Magyar's intentions, at times using AI-generated videos like this, even though it makes clear the video is fake. "The video is an AI video, but the war is really horrible," the video says. "Péter Magyar doesn't want you to see this video. He doesn't want you to see what an irreversible tragedy it is to join a war." Fidesz alleges that Magyar, from the centre-right party Tisza, will bring Russia's war against Ukraine to its doorstep if elected, even using pension money to support Ukraine and imposing forced conscription. Such narratives have been widely rejected by Magyar and by his party Tisza. In its manifesto, it pledges it will not send troops to Ukraine and does not plan to revive conscription. We asked ruling party Fidesz whether it had made the AI execution video and why it had posted it on to its social media channels, but the party has not responded to our questions. In an interview with a journalist posted to Facebook, Támas Menczer, who is communications director of the Fidesz-KNDP alliance, responded to a question about the AI video saying he believed "the greatest possible danger is that Hungarian people could die if Tisza wins, because Tisza supports the war, Tisza supports sending money". However, he did not comment on the video being made with AI. Magyar has condemned the video stating that Fidesz "crossed all limits", and called the video "heartless manipulation". Zsófia Fülöp, a journalist at Hungary's only dedicated independent fact-checking website, Lakmusz, says while such narratives from the ruling party are not new, the use of generative AI is. "It is omnipresent in this campaign, especially in the communication of the ruling party and its media and proxies. They've used it before but now it's massive." The strategy does not appear to have had much of an impact on voters, with Magyar leading in most opinion polls. Social media posts by Fidesz's allies have parroted similar anti-Ukrainian narratives. Last month the National Resistance Movement (NEM) - a pro-Fidesz political activist group - shared a video made using AI that depicts a phone call between European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen and Péter Magyar discussing sending money to Ukraine. It was viewed more than 3.7 million times. "When the phone rings and a request comes, then he won't be able to say no," the accompanying caption read. NEM did not disclose the video had been made using AI. Magyar called it out as fake, but the video had already been shared widely by pro-government media as well as Fidesz politicians, including the prime minister. In his post, Orbán stated that the video had been AI-generated but warned it could become a reality. We asked NEM why they had posted the AI video and whether they had made it, but they did not comment. "We're in a state of hallucination," says Éva Bognár, a researcher at the Central European University's Democracy Institute. "In a way the whole campaign is a disinformation campaign because it's all based on a complete false narrative that we're on the brink of war." In another instance a few weeks ago, Hungary's anti-terrorism police arrested seven Ukrainian bank workers who were transiting through with $80m (£60m) worth of cash and 9kg (20lb) of gold in cash-transport vehicles to Ukraine. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andriy Sybiha accused the Hungarian government of taking the group hostage and stealing money. Ukraine's state savings bank, Oschadbank, said they had a valid licence and that it was a routine journey between Austria and Ukraine. But the Hungarian government alleged that money laundering was taking place and suggested it might be to "finance pro-Ukraine forces". Although the Ukrainian bank workers have been released without charges, authorities are yet to return the money and gold. On Facebook, pro-government outlets used AI images to report on the arrests. One pro-government outlet uploaded hyper-realistic images of the arrest, reporting the images as fact. When compared with images and videos of the event posted on the Hungarian government's official Facebook page, they are wildly different. Inaccuracies can be seen in the uniforms of the officers as well as the clothes of the Ukrainian individuals. Facebook's third party fact-checking service has labelled the post as "partly false". Hungary had better relations with Ukraine in the past, and even backed Ukraine's bid to join the EU until late 2023, but relations deteriorated as Orbán maintained close ties to Russia's Vladimir Putin. One survey by research institute Policy Solutions suggests the level of anti-Ukrainian feeling in Hungary is barely lower than anti-Russian sentiment, with 64% of Hungarians holding a negative opinion of Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky, and 67% disliking Putin. "One side holds all the cards," says researcher Éva Bognár. "Fidesz has infinite resources at its disposal: from public funds, state agencies and offices to a media conglomerate that operates as a propaganda machine, including the public service media." Magyar is partly cutting through the fraught media landscape using social media. According to 20k, a Hungarian election integrity watchdog tracking the social media activity of political actors during the election, Magyar's posts on Facebook, TikTok, and Instagram receive twice the level of engagement of Orbán's. Magyar posts a mixture of professional content and images portraying himself as a younger and more relatable leader, showing him partying, playing volleyball, flipping burgers at a restaurant, and enjoying water sports. But the Tisza leader has also engaged in milder forms of misleading rhetoric, including inaccuracies about the number of Hungarian babies born outside of the country in an attempt to evoke a sense of missing national pride. He has even played the ruling party at their own game, alleging that it is Fidesz, not Tisza, that wants to reintroduce compulsory military service. Apart from it being briefly mentioned by two Fidesz politicians in 2016, we found no evidence that the party wants to revive compulsory military service. Péter Krekó, who heads independent political research institute Political Capital, says Magyar has also been able to "exploit... strong public resentment" towards the government. Much of that is being driven by people between the ages of 18 and 40. A survey by the Median agency suggests that support for Tisza remains strongest amongst those under 40, while nearly half of people over 65 support Fidesz. Despite this, Fidesz clings to its anti-Ukrainian narrative, in both traditional media and online, with posters showing Zelensky and Magyar together under the warning "They are dangerous!" If Fidesz wins, we will see the same disinformation tactics being used beyond the election, says Krekó. But if it doesn't win, there will be a "more tumultuous relationship between the media and politicians". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? Magyar represents the biggest threat to Viktor Orban's rule in Hungary since he won the first of four consecutive victories in 2010. The World Cup includes 48 nations, but there are still a number of top players who have missed out on qualification. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Russian drone attack on a market in southern Ukraine has killed five people and injured 21, including a 14-year-old girl, the prosecutor general's office says. The attack took place at 09:50 (06.50 GMT) in the town of Nikopol, across the Dnipro river from land occupied by Russia since their full-scale invasion in February 2022. Pictures published by the regional prosecutor show smashed market kiosks strewn with metal and glass. It comes after at least 15 civilians were killed in drone and missile strikes across Ukraine on Friday. Meanwhile a drone and missile attack by Ukraine on the southern Russian city of Taganrog overnight killed at least one person and seriously injured four, Russia said. Ukraine's Nikopol frequently comes under fire, and almost half of the town's 100,000 residents left long ago for safety. But these drones hit in the middle of Saturday morning – in a busy spot – and the number of casualties is high. Two men were injured in a second strike on the same location, the prosecutor said, adding that the attacks were being investigated as a war crime. Russia launched almost 300 drones against Ukraine again overnight, the Ukrainian air force said, and casualties were also reported in the northeastern city of Kharkiv and the northern Sumy region. Meanwhile Moscow said it had shot down 85 Ukrainian drones. Rostov regional governor Yuri Slyusar said the attack in Taganrog had caused a fire to break out in the premises of a logistics company in the city. A Ukrainian defence ministry official blamed the casualties on "Russian air defence operations". Kyiv also reported two attacks on factories it said were used by the Russian military industrial complex. The defence official said a "massive attack" was carried out on a plant in Togliatti that produced synthetic rubber and petrochemical raw materials. Later Ukraine's Security Service said drone strikes had halted production at the Alchevsk metallurgical plant in a Russian-occupied area of Ukraine's Luhansk region. As a result of the attack, the second in a month, blast furnaces, production shops and other key areas of the factory were damaged, the agency said. President Volodymyr Zelensky has offered Russia a truce for the Easter holidays. But so far, Moscow is ignoring that. Major daytime attacks by Russia, which were once rare, have been increasing. On the other hand, a British intelligence assessment said that the situation on the frontline in the east was the "most favourable" for Ukraine in 10 months, as the advance of Russian troops appears to have slowed. But at the same time diplomatic efforts to end the war, led by the US, have stalled since US President Donald Trump and his team shifted focus to the conflict in the Middle East. Last week, Zelensky visited Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Jordan - all of which have been targeted by Iranian aerial attacks. He offered Ukraine's drone technology and expertise, while seeking assistance  against Russian missile attacks and new sources of fuel. Surging global oil prices threaten Ukraine's ability to fight, as Russia's attacks on its energy infrastructure have left the country heavily dependent on fuel imports. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has accused Moscow of choosing "Easter escalation" over an Easter ceasefire after Russia carried out another deadly large-scale drone and missile attack on Ukraine. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles across the country. Major daytime attacks, which were once rare, have been increasing. It's happening as efforts to end the war, led by the US, have stalled since US President Donald Trump and his team shifted focus to the conflict in the Middle East. Meanwhile, Zelensky agreed with a British intelligence assessment that the situation on the frontline in the east was the "most favourable" for Ukraine in 10 months, as the advance of Russian troops appears to have slowed. But there has been no let-up in the air raids. In the Zhytomyr region, west of Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, rescuers had to search for survivors beneath the rubble of their homes as a whole line of houses was destroyed. In the Kyiv region, a drone was filmed careering towards a block of flats, then slamming into its side, starting a fire. In Kharkiv, in north-eastern Ukraine, a woman was killed and other people were critically injured in a day of strikes the mayor called "one of the biggest" on the city so far. Zelensky described the barrage as Russia's response to his proposal of a temporary truce for the holidays: Orthodox Christians celebrate Easter next weekend both in Ukraine and in Russia. "The Russians have only intensified their strikes, turning what should have been silence in the skies into an Easter escalation," he wrote on X. In recent days, Ukraine has launched multiple deep strikes of its own, targeting energy facilities on the northern coast of Russia in particular. One port, in Ust-Luga, has been hit by drones multiple times, forcing Russia to suspend exports. On Saturday, an adviser to the defence ministry in Kyiv said an industrial plant in Togliatti, southern Russia - that produces rubber products used in military equipment - had been struck overnight. Ukraine also reported an attack on a substation in Taganrog on the sea of Azov and debris hitting a vessel. The local governor in Russia confirmed a "enemy drone" attack in Togliatti, and said one worker of an "industrial enterprise" had been injured by shrapnel. A residential building was also damaged. Zelensky said the offer of a holiday truce was still on the table if Moscow agreed, and that message had been passed on in a call to Trump's envoys, Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner. Plans for further in-person talks with Russia, mediated by the US, have now been postponed twice. Moscow says they are "on hold". Zelensky said Trump's team were welcome to come to Kyiv, then shuttle to Moscow, to keep the peace process alive. But there are doubts over whether Moscow is really looking for a deal as the global context has shifted in its favour. For Ukraine, the potential scarcity of fuel and surge in prices caused by the war on Iran is a worry: its own frontline troops need large amounts of diesel for their tanks and vehicles. Conversely, it's good news for Russia, which can make more money on energy exports to fund its weapons production and pay for soldiers. There are also concerns here about a potential shortage of US defensive missiles to shoot down the ballistic missiles that Russia keeps firing at Ukraine, since so many US Patriot systems are now being used in the war with Iran. "The longer the war in the Middle East continues, the greater the risk that we will receive less weaponry," Zelensky told journalists in Kyiv in recorded messages. "This is extremely difficult – perhaps one of the most challenging tasks." He did describe the situation on the frontline as "stable", with small territorial gains in places and losses elsewhere, and suggested the threat of a major Russian breakthrough had receded. Even so, Ukraine's focus appears to be on holding the line now, not major advances of its own. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Volodymyr Zelensky says the Gulf kingdom faces the same type of attacks from Iran that Kyiv has been resisting. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Satellite imagery and verified videos show Ukraine has repeatedly struck key Russian oil export infrastructure near the Baltic Sea in the past week, leaving some facilities burning for several days. BBC Verify has confirmed at least three oil sites in Russia's Leningrad region have been attacked since 23 March, including the ports of and Ust-Luga and Primorsk  - and the inland Kirishi oil refinery. On Tuesday, Ukraine drone forces commander Robert Brovdi said Ust-Luga had been struck again on Monday night "to keep the fire going". Governor of Leningrad region Alexander Drozdenko said three people, including two children, were injured during the attack in which 38 drones were shot down. According to analysis by the Finland-based Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (Crea) 20% of Russia's total oil exports departed from Ust-Luga and 22% from Primorsk. Recent data shows no ships were loaded with oil in any of Russia's three Baltic ports on 26 and 27 March, which Crea said is the first period of two consecutive days with no such activity since Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Satellite images show enormous plumes of smoke rising from burning oil facilities in Primorsk on 24 March, as well as fires at Ust-Luga and extensive damage to Kirishi on 27 March. BBC Verify's analysis of the pictures indicates: Nasa's satellite resource FIRMS, used to detect heat signatures on the Earth's surface, indicates Primorsk was still burning as of 02:54 BST on Monday and at Ust-Luga at 12:28 on Monday. BBC Verify has also confirmed several videos showing the aftermath of attacks on all three facilities in the past week, including clips showing massive smoke plumes rising into the sky from Primorsk. Brovdi had previously said an operation targeting these three Baltic oil facilities began on 23 March, saying the strikes were aimed at "demilitarising Russia's oil arteries, refining capacity and crude export infrastructure". Ukraine's military has said the Kirishi refinery is among the three largest oil‑processing plants in Russia, including the production of "fuels that support the armed forces of the aggressor state". At least 40% of Russia's oil export capacity was halted on 25 March following the first attacks, according to calculations by the Reuters news agency based on market data. According to Crea's analysis, Russia earned about £7.1bn from oil exports in the final three weeks of March, as prices rose sharply due to disruption caused by the US-Israel war with Iran. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Monday that allies have asked Kyiv to reduce attacks on Russia's energy sector because of the global energy crisis. He added they would only end if Russia stopped targeting Ukraine's energy system. Alexander Lord, an analyst at UK-based intelligence company Sybelline, said it's "likely that Kyiv is attempting to offset the revenue windfall that Russian oil and gas exporters are otherwise currently enjoying". But Lord added the longer the war continues, the more likely it becomes that the "US will attempt to pressure Ukraine to stop these targeted strikes, as part of wider efforts to suppress global oil prices". Additional reporting by Daniele Palumbo and Yaroslava Kiryukhina A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Volodymyr Zelensky has said Ukraine's allies have urged him to scale back attacks on Russia's energy infrastructure amid the ongoing global fuel crisis - but that they would only end if Russia stopped targeting Ukraine's first. The Ukrainian president told journalists in a WhatsApp voice message that, by launching attacks on Russia's energy system, Ukraine was only responding in kind. It is unclear which countries he may have been referring to. China and India remain heavily dependent on Russian oil, and the EU on Russian gas. Zelensky's comments come amid a string of long-range Ukrainian strikes on Russia's energy sector, including the key oil export terminal at the port of Ust-Luga outside St Petersburg. "We have received messages from some of our partners asking about how our responses against Russia's oil sector - the energy sector - can be reduced," Zelensky said in the voice message. "If Russia is ready not to strike Ukraine's energy, then we'll respond by not attacking theirs." In response to surging energy prices triggered by the war in Iran and Tehran's effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz - a key shipping route - the US recently eased some sanctions it had imposed on Russian oil. China and India remain the largest buyers of Russian crude oil, though, accounting for 85% of its exports in February, according to the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA). Meanwhile, the EU is the largest buyer of Russian gas (34%) and LNG (49%). After relentless Russian attacks on Ukraine's oil refineries, the latter now heavily relies on fuel imports - largely via Poland, Greece, Lithuania and Turkey. Almost half of Ukraine's gas imports used to come from Hungary, but they were seemingly suspended Budapest accused Kyiv of stalling the repair of a pipeline carrying oil from Russia over it holding up an EU loan The key targets of Ukraine's deep strikes on Russian energy infrastructure and the impact they have are a closely guarded secret, meaning there's little clarity there as well. While strikes on Ukraine's energy have been in the news recently, defence factories have been hit as well. Zelensky told journalists on Saturday that Ukraine's attacks on the Ust-Luga oil terminal earlier this week had knocked out 60% of the port's capacity. Further attacks on the terminal took place overnight into Tuesday, according to Russian and Ukrainian officials. Local governor Alexander Drozdenko said there had been some damage and three people were hurt, including two children. Last week, Zelensky visited Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Jordan - all of which have been targeted by Iranian aerial attacks. During the tour, he offered Ukraine's drone technology and expertise, and sought assistance in protecting Ukraine against Russian missile attacks. While surging global oil prices mean an injection of cash into Russia's war economy, they also threaten Ukraine's ability to fight. Responding to a BBC question on Saturday, Zelensky said the Ukrainian army had enough fuel for now, but that he had sought to secure more during his tour of the Gulf. He also said that Ukraine, which successfully beat back Russia's attempts to stop grain exports via the Black Sea, had useful experience of unblocking trade routes when it came to the Strait of Hormuz. Russian attacks have caused severe damage to Ukraine's energy system, in particular leaving more than a million people without electricity and heating in winter. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Ukrainian refugee group has praised the "kind and welcoming" people of Keighley as they prepare for a cultural festival, four years after Russia's full-scale invasion. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival will take place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday afternoon, and includes live music, traditional food, a market and craft workshops. Organiser Olga Zhydetska said she moved to the town as a refugee four years ago and had been made to feel "very welcome". "I was really impressed that people from a country who might never of heard of Ukraine before the war, they were so welcoming, so kind to us, and I think the people of this area are the best. "They are so kind, they have so much empathy and that's why we feel really welcome and we love this area of the country," she said. The festival will include performances from the Dibrova Male Choir as well as a range of creative workshops, including petrykivka and pysanky painting. Pysanky is a way of decorating Easter eggs using a traditional wax-resist technique, while petrykivka is a style of floral painting. "Petrykivka was created in central Ukraine 200 years ago and it's beautiful floral painting in a very interesting style," explained Zhydetska. "It's very easy and all the artists use natural dyes and handmade cat-hair brushes. I cannot promise you will use the natural dyes but cat-hair brushes will be presented and you can try them at our traditional workshops." Zhydetska and her family and friends started the festival to build community bridges and celebrate their home country. She said Bradford had a long history with Ukraine. "The Ukrainian community has very strong roots because after World War Two the first batch of Ukrainian refugees came and the biggest Ukrainian community in Europe was in Bradford and Keighley. "We feel like we have to tell people who we are, what we can do, what our culture is like – it's very important to share. "Culture is a real bridge that we can build across the communities and suddenly you realise you have much more in common than you ever thought," she said. The team behind the festival will also serve traditional dumplings, called varenyky, and homemade pastries. All funds raised will go towards supporting Ukraine and people affected by the war, the organisation said. Listen to highlights from West Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, catch up with the latest episode of Look North. All households in Bradford will receive external food waste bins and kitchen caddies this autumn. From 'Vikings' in love to new butterfly habitats, the stories to bring a smile to your face. David Ben Eke is encouraging children aged five to 17 to submit stories for the anthology. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Earlier this week mattresses and bin bags were tipped next to the entrance of Bolling Hall Museum. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Volodymyr Zelensky says Ukraine has signed a deal with Saudi Arabia to share its drone defence expertise and technology. Zelensky said Saudi Arabia was facing the same type of ballistic missile and drone attacks from Iran that Ukraine had been resisting for more than four years from Russia. "We are ready to share our expertise and systems with Saudi Arabia and to work together to strengthen the protection of lives," he said in a post on X. Ahead of a meeting with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, Zelensky posted that the defence deal laid the foundation for future contracts, technological cooperation and investment. "Saudi Arabia also has capabilities that are of interest to Ukraine, and this cooperation can be mutually beneficial," the Ukrainian president added. Zelensky said he had also discussed with Mohammed bin Salman reports that Russia was assisting Iran's regime, as well as developments in the fuel market and energy co-operation. On Thursday, in a video message to the Joint Expeditionary Force, a security alliance which held a summit meeting in Helsinki, Zelensky said: "The key is not only producing new weapons - especially drones - not just technology, but also real experience in using it, and integrating it with radars, aviation, and other air defence systems. We have this experience," he added. Zelensky said that in exchange he would be looking for assistance in defending Ukraine against the ongoing Russian invasion. "We would like Middle Eastern states to also give us an opportunity to strengthen ourselves. They have certain air defence missiles of which we don't have enough. That's what we'd like to reach a deal on," he said in an interview with the French newspaper Le Monde. The BBC has spoken to several Ukrainian drone companies who say they have been approached by Gulf states for help, but have not yet been given the green light by the government in Kyiv. Kvertus, a Ukrainian company that makes anti-drone electronic warfare systems, said it had been approached by Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. "We are waiting for approval to export any products. We understand that we need to coordinate with our government because it's not only about business, about selling drones, it's about politics," the company's chief executive officer Yaroslav Filimonov told the BBC. Volodymyr Zinovsky, the CEO of Ukrainian manufacturer TAF Industries, said he was happy to wait for the government's permission to export because Ukraine's security is at stake. "All of us are working to protect Ukraine, to stay with Ukraine and to keep Ukraine alive. This is about survival. And if we need to wait a few months, we will," he told the BBC. Zinovsky said his company had been approached by representatives of Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, but told them to discuss this with the Ukrainian government. Media reports suggest that the US is now considering diverting arms meant for Ukraine to the Gulf because of the war with Iran, making a drone deal even more crucial for Ukraine. The Washington Post quoted sources as saying that the Pentagon is considering diverting weapons intended for Ukraine to the Middle East as the war in Iran depletes some of the US military's most critical munitions. Asked about the report on Thursday, President Trump said the US often redirects weapons, observing: "We do that all the time. Sometimes we take from one, and we use for another." The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. The final six nations have qualified for the 2026 World Cup - this is your essential lowdown on the expanded edition of the tournament. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Zimbabwe says that 15 of its nationals have been killed after being recruited to fight for Russia in its ongoing war with Ukraine, with more than 60 still trapped on the frontlines. Information Minister Zhemu Soda said the Zimbabweans had been lured by shadowy agencies promising lucrative jobs abroad using "social media platforms as their primary hunting ground". "It is a sophisticated scheme of deception, exploitation, and human trafficking that has already resulted in the loss of Zimbabwean lives," he said. The Zimbabwe government says it is in talks with the Russian authorities to ensure the bodies are repatriated and those still alive return home safely. It is the first time the country has acknowledged that dozens of its nationals are in military service to Russia. Soda warned Zimbabweans to exercise caution regarding overseas job offers, urging them to verify opportunities through official channels. He warned that the recruiters often disappear once a recruit is injured, captured, or killed, leaving relatives with no financial support or information. The Zimbabwean case reflects a wider pattern seen across other African countries including Kenya, Ghana and South Africa, whose citizens have been enticed to join the war. A Ukrainian intelligence assessment has estimated that more than 1,700 people from 36 countries in Africa have been recruited to fight for Russia. Kenya estimates that 252 citizens have been illegally conscripted in Russia, and last week Foreign Minister Musalia Mudavadi visited Moscow to address the matter. He said an agreement had been reached to stop deploying Kenyan nationals to fight in the war. Last month Ghana said that 55 of its citizens had been killed in the conflict, with about 272 believed to have been lured to fight since the war started in 2022. The same month, South Africa secured the return of 17 South Africans who were allegedly tricked into joining the war. Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Cameroon's President Paul Biya, 93, won his eighth successive term last year in a disputed election. The fuel cost is nearly double what the government budgeted for putting pressure on stretched finances. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. People evicted to build Nigeria's capital accuse the government of failing to fulfill its promises to them. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian drones entered Estonian and Latvian air spaces from Russia overnight, with one hitting infrastructure and another crashing on land, Tallinn and Riga have said. One struck the chimney of a power plant in Auvere, Estonia, while another exploded in the southern Kraslava region of Latvia. No major damage or injuries were reported. The incident occurred around the same time as Ukraine launched a massive drone attack on the Russian port of Ust-Luga on the Baltic Sea, some 25km (15 miles) away from the Estonian border. Estonian Prime Minister Kristen Michal said Ust-Luga was attacked in three waves between 03:00 and 08:00 local time. Baltic air patrols were activated and Estonians received notifications on their phones warning of a "drone threat". The country's security police chief, Margo Palloson, said it was "a Ukrainian drone that deviated from its course, which was possibly affected in Russian airspace." Latvian President Edgars Rinkēvičs also confirmed the drone that hit its territory was Ukrainian. Latvia's Defence Minister, Andris Spruds, cut short a visit to Ukraine and returned to Latvia in the wake of the incident. Egils Lescinskis, Latvian deputy chief of the Joint Staff, said the drone "most likely veered off course or was affected by electromagnetic warfare measures protecting some technically important objects". Drones can sometimes miss their targets when drone jamming systems interfere with their GPS signal. When asked whether local residents could feel safe, Lescinskis admitted no-one could "feel completely safe when military operations are taking place in neighbouring countries". He refrained from blaming Russia or Ukraine for the accident, and said the drone that crashed into the power plant's chimney was one of "the effects of Russia's full-scale war of aggression". Palloson of Estonia's security police warned that the country was likely to see "more such incidents", while the country's leader Michal said it was "pointless to create the illusion that we can build a wall on the border with Russia". A similar incident occurred on Monday night in Lithuania, when a Ukrainian attack drone crashed and exploded near the Belarusian border. Lithuanian authorities later confirmed the drone had been launched as part of that night's operations against Russia and said they would discuss the situation with Ukraine. "This is a very sensitive and important area for us... All countries must ensure airspace security and inform other countries if they see risks. Belarus does the same," said Lithuanian Foreign Minister Kestutis Budrys. Ust-Luga is a major oil export terminal and the attack triggered a fire which was later brought under control, local authorities said. Earlier this week Ukraine also targeted the Primorsk port on the Baltic Sea. Kyiv has been launching regular attacks on Russian energy sites, targeting refineries, ports and tankers with drones. Almost 400 drones were fired by Ukraine towards several Russian regions overnight, including the Moscow region. Between Monday and Tuesday, Russia launched its largest attack over 24-hour period on Ukraine, firing 948 drones, killing and injuring multiple people. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia has launched the largest aerial attack on Ukraine over a 24-hour period since the war began, hitting cities across the country with 948 drones. Ukraine's Air Force said 556 drones had been fired since 09:00 local time (07:00 GMT) on Tuesday, in an unusual daytime attack which killed at least three people and injured dozens. In the western city of Lviv, the 16th century Bernardine monastery - part of a Unesco World Heritage site in the city centre - was damaged, local officials said. In the neighbouring Ivano-Frankivsk region, a maternity hospital was hit. Those strikes came after an overnight Russian attack left five people dead. Ukraine said 392 drones and 34 missiles were fired. In his video address on Tuesday evening, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the scale of the latest attacks "clearly shows that Russia has no intention of really ending this war". Russia's military has not publicly commented on the attacks. A video posted earlier on Tuesday by Lviv authorities showed a fire burning through the roof of a residential building near the Bernardine monastery. Separate footage posted on social media showed a drone flying lower over the city and hitting the residential building. Lviv regional head Maksym Kozytskyi said 32 people were injured in the Russian attack. In the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, two people were killed and another four - including a six-year-old child - were injured, local officials said. Various buildings - including a maternity hospital - were damaged in the regional capital. Ternopil - another western Ukrainian city - was also targeted on Tuesday. A number of direct hits were reported by regional authorities, but no casualties. In the central Ukrainian city of Vinnytsia, one person was killed and 13 injured, regional head Nataliya Zabolotna said. In the overnight Russian attacks, five people were killed when Russia targeted 11 Ukrainian regions. Ukraine's Air Force said it had managed to shoot down most of the Russian drones and missiles - but admitted that there were multiple direct hits across the country. Yurii Ihnat, spokesman of the Ukrainian Air Force, said late on Tuesday that a "large number of drones" had entered Ukrainian airspace from the north of the country, "effectively moving in columns". "The geography of the strikes during the daytime was broader than at night... It can be said this was one of the largest attacks within a 24-hour period," he said. While more than four years of war have left virtually no corner of Ukraine untouched, the west of the country has been hit comparatively less intensely and frequently than other areas nearer the Russian border in the east. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, and the war continues unabated, with Moscow launching near-daily attacks on cities across the country. Also on Tuesday, the governor of Russia's western Kursk region said one man was killed and 13 people were injured in a Ukrainian drone attack on an agricultural enterprise. Talks brokered by the US and aimed at reaching a peace settlement have stalled since the start of the US-Israeli war with Iran in late February. "Amid the news the world is drowning in every day, we will not let Ukrainian grief get lost, become just another statistic, a headline that will be casually skipped over," wrote Ukraine's First Lady Olena Zelenska on social media. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least five people have been killed in Russian strikes across Ukraine, after a massive overnight aerial bombardment targeted several regions across the country. A 61-year-old woman was killed when a drone hit an electric train in Kharkiv early on Tuesday, authorities said, while other deaths were reported in Zaporizhzhia, Kherson and Poltava. Officials said the attacks were among the worst in 10 days, and came hours after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky had warned of a forthcoming "massive strike" in his nightly address. Russian strikes targeting energy infrastructure also disconnected Moldova's key power link with Europe, President Maia Sandu said, warning the situation remained "fragile". Sirens wailed across Ukraine on Monday night as Russia launched a barrage of missiles and drones at the country. Seven ballistic missiles, 23 cruise missiles, four air-launched guided missiles and 392 drones were used in the attack, the Ukrainian Air Force said in a statement on Telegram. Air defence units intercepted 25 missiles and 365 drones, it added. In a post on X on Tuesday, Zelensky said: "These numbers clearly show that more protection is needed to save lives from Russian strikes. It is important to continue supporting Ukraine." Attacks of this scale have been occurring roughly once a week or every ten days in recent months, and there had been mounting fears in the past few days that another wave of strikes was imminent. "Please pay attention to air raid sirens tonight," Zelensky said earlier in his video address to the nation on Monday. "Intelligence says Russia may be preparing a massive strike." This time the attack focused on cities other than the capital, Kyiv. Damage was reported in eleven regions, Zelensky said. Among the worst affected was the south-eastern city of Zaporizhzhia, which was struck by six drones followed by six ballistic missiles. One person was killed and nine injured after a residential high-rise building was hit, local authorities said. Local resident Dymtro Zaiets told Reuters news agency that his family was woken by a "very loud explosion". "We quickly gathered our things and ran downstairs, everything was on fire on our floor," he said. "There was smoke, and we took our three-month-old child and ran quickly to the underground shelter. My car is destroyed. All our windows were blown out." Elsewhere, at least two people were killed and 12 injured when strikes hit residential buildings and a hotel in the north-eastern Poltava region, governor Vitaliy Dyakivnych said on Telegram. In Kherson, a civilian was killed when his house came under Russian shelling, the head of the city's military administration, Yaroslav Shanko, said. A 75-year-old woman was injured and hospitalised after a Russian attack on the Dnipropetrovsk region, authorities said, and a 65-year-old bus driver was injured when his vehicle was hit by a drone in Sumy. Moldova's government condemned the strike on energy infrastructure in the Odesa region, which led to the disconnection of the Isaccea-Vulcanesti power line, used by Moldova to import electricity from neighbouring Romania. "Alternative routes are in place, but the situation remains fragile," President Sandu wrote on X. "Russia alone bears responsibility." In a post on Telegram, Moldova's foreign ministry said the attacks "undermine regional energy security and endanger critical civilian infrastructure". Moscow's overnight attack took place as the pace of the Russian advance in eastern Ukraine has slowed down significantly, with Ukrainian forces reporting minor counteroffensives in some areas. Russia's defence ministry said its air defences had intercepted "55 Ukrainian fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicles" over various regions overnight. Zelensky has previously warned that Russia will attempt to "exploit the war in the Middle East to cause even greater destruction" in Ukraine. Air-defence systems critical to Ukraine's ability to defend itself against Russian missile attacks are being rapidly expended in the US-Israel war with Iran. In an interview with the BBC earlier in March, the Ukrainian President said Putin wanted a "long war" in the Middle East because it would weaken Kyiv, with US resources and focus directed elsewhere. He said that peace negotiations were being "constantly postponed", adding: "There is one reason - war in Iran." Ukrainian and US officials held talks over the weekend over how to end Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine - the first such negotiations since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran last month. Following talks on Sunday, Zelensky said it was clear that US attention was focused on Iran, but that "this war of Russia against Ukraine must also be brought to an end". Several rounds of talks mediated by the US have so far failed to stop the fighting in Ukraine or change Russia's maximalist demands. The Trump administration's decision to ease its sanctions on countries buying Russian oil earlier this month was welcomed by the Kremlin, but has sparked deep concerns among Ukrainians. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two police officers have been injured in an explosion that authorities say was a "terrorist act" in the town of Bucha near the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv. An explosion occurred on a residential street in the early hours of Monday. When police arrived at the site, a second blast took place, injuring two officers. Police arrested a 21-year-old local resident who they say was recruited online to carry out the two explosions. They did not share what platform the suspect had been been recruited on, but a security source told the BBC it had been done through the online game World of Tanks. "He says he just wanted to make some money and was promised 25,000 hryvnyas [£450; $570] for each blast," the Kyiv Region Criminal Iinvestigations Directorate head, Andriy Kravchuk, told the media at the scene. The Ukrainian security service SBU issued a statement calling the suspect "a Russian agent". But police - who are working to establish who recruited the suspect - are not confirming any links to Russia. They released footage of the suspect being questioned, in which he says he was blackmailed into planting the explosives. The man said those he communicated with over the internet told him they knew where his mother was and could "see her from a drone". "Either you do what we tell you or something happens to your mum," they allegedly told him. The suspect has been charged with terrorism. Kravchuk said the two police officers who were injured in the explosions received injuries to their limbs, which are not believed to be life-threatening. Local resident Viktoria Ivasyshyna, 21, told the BBC she heard "a very loud explosion and I immediately realised that this was not civilian or an industrial accident." "We woke up to a powerful explosion. At first we thought someone had a gas explosion in their apartment, but it turned out that it wasn't," a resident of the house in Bucha outside which blasts occurred told the local town council. In a post on Facebook, the council also quoted eyewitnesses as saying that the shock wave was palpable, and all emergency services quickly arrived at the scene. This follows a string of similar incidents across Ukraine this year. In the western city of Lviv on 22 February, a police officer was killed and more than 20 people were injured as a bomb went off after police arrived to look into a report of an earlier explosion. Police say the explosives in Lviv were planted by a Ukrainian woman who had been paid by Russian secret services. On 23 February, a bomb targeted police who had gathered at a disused police station in the southern city of Mykolayiv, injuring seven. On the same day, there was a blast outside a police station in Dnipro, a city in central Ukraine. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Six people have been killed in Russian attacks on four Ukrainian regions in the past 24 hours, local authorities say. They say that in the southern city of Zaporizhzhia two people died when a drone hit a residential house on Saturday. Eight people, including two children, were injured. In the nearby Dnipropetrovsk region, two people were killed and five injured. Authorities in the eastern Donetsk and southern Kherson regions each reported one death. This comes as Ukrainian and US teams are continuing their talks on how to end Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine - the first such negotiations since Israel and America launched wide-ranging strikes on Iran last month. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky wants his negotiators to discuss the US decision to ease sanctions on Russian oil - implemented by Washington to help keep down global energy prices. On Saturday, the first day of the talks in Florida, Ukrainian negotiators met Donald Trump's envoy Steve Witkoff and the US president's son-in-law, Jared Kushner. "It is important for all of us across the world that diplomacy continues and we're trying to stop this war," Zelensky said in his late-night video address. "The most important thing is to understand how prepared Russia is for moving towards really ending the war and how prepared they are to do this honestly and decently. This is particularly important given that because of the Iran situation geopolitical problems have only got worse." After further talks on Sunday, Zelensky said it was clear that US attention was focused on Iran, but said "this war of Russia against Ukraine must also be brought to an end". He said it is "important to ensure that the aggressor is not rewarded for this war" and that there are security guarantees for Ukraine and all of Europe so that "none of us is forced to return to war in a few months or years". Several rounds of talks mediated by the US have so far failed to stop the fighting in Ukraine or change Russia's maximalist demands, and there is little hope of a breakthrough. A friend of one of the victims of the drone attack in Zaporizhzhia told the Reuters news agency: "I stopped believing long ago. When will this all just end? When will they finally reach an agreement? "How long can they keep negotiating? Just give it to the Russian side so hard that it hurts them as much as it hurts us." The mother of one of the victims told Reuters that she had been staying at a friend's apartment at the time of the strike. "When the strike happened I checked a Telegram channel and I saw their fence and my son's car," she added. On the agenda for the US talks is setting up another trilateral meeting involving Russia, as well as efforts to smooth over the rocky relationship between Zelensky and Trump, who has accused the Ukrainian leader of being the main obstacle to peace. Ukraine is also offering the US its drone expertise and technology - which could be useful in fighting and defending against Iran. Russian forces have frequently targeted Zaporizhzhia since the start of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Speaking to the BBC's Laura Kuenssberg last week, Zelensky said Ukraine faced a deficit of missiles due to the war in the Middle East. He said Russian President Vladimir Putin wanted a "long war" between the US, Israel and Iran because it would weaken Kyiv, with US resources being directed elsewhere. The Trump administration's decision to ease its sanctions on countries buying Russian oil earlier this month was welcomed by the Kremlin - but sparked deep concerns among Ukrainians. The US waiver, active for one month, will make it easier for countries to buy up Russian oil. Pro-Ukraine campaigners have said it marks a symbolic shift in the Western consensus away from applying maximum pressure on Russia. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A bitter dispute pitting Hungary and Slovakia against Ukraine is holding up a crucial €90bn (£77.95bn) EU loan to Ukraine. No oil has flowed through the Druzhba (Friendship) pipeline, from Russia to Hungary and Slovakia across Ukraine, since the major oil hub at Brody, in western Ukraine, was damaged in a Russian attack on 27 January. While Ukraine argues that it will need six more weeks to repair the damage and restore the oil flow, Budapest accuses Kyiv of stalling, as revenge for Hungary's pro-Russian and anti-Ukrainian position. The dispute underlines the ability of one or two countries to block EU decision-making. It also shows Hungary and Slovakia facing fuel problems, because they have refused to follow the lead of others and wean themselves off Russian oil since 2022. The Brody pumping station in Ukraine's western Lviv region is crucially important for the transit of Russian oil to Hungary and Slovakia. Satellite images obtained by the BBC suggest that the Russian strike on 27 January damaged its key part - a huge tank used to store oil necessary to keep the pipeline pressurised and functioning. The photos appear to show the tank smouldering after the attack and suggest that a fire raged there for days. This is the biggest oil tank in Ukraine, with a capacity of 75,000 cubic metres. Ukrainian energy expert Henadiy Ryabtsev says damage caused to the pumping station at Brody is severe, and is possibly not just limited to the oil tank. According to him, the extreme heat resulting from the fire may have also damaged other systems at Brody, such as pumps and the pipeline itself. "The oil was on fire for about a week, which means that during that time everything around it was affected by the high temperature," he told the BBC. The government in Kyiv says the damage caused to Brody is severe and Ukraine does not have the resources to repair it more quickly. "This is a technical issue," Ukrainian foreign ministry spokesman Heorhy Tykhy told the BBC. "Our infrastructure is being damaged every day... Ukraine repairs all of that, but we do not have unlimited resources. We are in a full-scale war, which Hungary decides to ignore for some reason." To speed up the repairs, the EU has offered Ukraine "technical support" and funding, says European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. "The Ukrainians have welcomed and accepted this offer. European experts are available immediately," she said in a message on X. President Volodymyr Zelensky had earlier signalled reluctance to repair the pipeline. "I'll be honest, I wouldn't restore it... because it's Russian oil," he told journalists on 5 March. The Hungarian government has accused Ukraine of delaying the restoration of the oil flow through the pipeline for political reasons. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán maintains close economic and political relations with Moscow, and makes no secret of his dislike of Volodymyr Zelensky. Hostility to Ukraine is a central plank of the governing Fidesz party's re-election campaign, ahead of the 12 April vote. The Hungarian government bases its argument that the pipeline is intact on several pillars. "We can say this with a clear conscience: the pipeline itself has not been damaged," Zsolt Hernadi, the CEO of the Hungarian energy company MOL, told the ATV channel on 2 March. "Ukrainian colleagues …asked us to quickly take over this crude [from the tank] to prevent further escalation and avoid an even larger fire. We took over 35,000 tons of Ukrainian-origin crude, which flowed through the Druzhba pipeline without issue. Oil continued to arrive through the pipeline for at least two to three days. "Later, when we asked why the pipeline had still not restarted, we were told that no decision had yet been made regarding the restart. And the absence of a decision can hardly be described as a technical issue." A study commissioned by MOL from a US company, extracts of which have been seen by the BBC, concluded that the pumping of oil from the burning tank would be "unlikely" to harm the underground pipeline, which by its nature is robust and used to extremes of temperature. The opposite view is offered by András Rácz, a security analyst at the German Council on Foreign Relations. "The superheated oil (from the burning tanks) cooked the system from inside, damaging the sensors, the valves, all the safety systems inside the pipeline," he told the BBC. His information is based on conversations with Hungarian and Ukrainian pipeline engineers. "The pipe itself is intact, but it cannot be operated safely because everything inside needs to be replaced or at least double checked to assess the extent of the damage." Ukrainian engineers working to repair the facility can only work during the day, because of nightly air-raids, and there is also a shortage of experts because of the constant damage from Russian attacks on the Ukrainian energy grid. "I think its very promising that the Ukrainian side is now showing more transparency," said András Rácz. In the meantime, Hungary has begun receiving non-Russian seaborne Brent crude from Norway, Saudi Arabia and Libya through the Adria pipeline from Croatia. But the MOL refineries lack equipment to refine non-Russian oil, which has a lower sulphur content. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
European Union leaders have accused Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orbán of disloyalty and blackmail after he blocked a €90bn (£77bn) loan for Ukraine. "No oil = no money," Orbán said in a post on X after Thursday's summit in Brussels during which he refused to lift his veto, citing a feud over a damaged pipeline that transports Russian oil to Hungary. German Chancellor Friedrich Merz said Orbán's actions amounted to "a gross act of disloyalty", while European Council head António Costa described them as tantamount to "blackmail". Orbán - who has maintained close ties with Russia since it launched its full-scale invasion in Ukraine in 2022 - has made hostility towards Ukraine a key issue ahead of elections on 12 April. Hungary depends on Russian energy and Orbán has accused Ukraine of disrupting these energy supplies by failing to repair a Soviet-era pipeline, called Druzhba, which carries Russian oil to Hungary and Slovakia through Ukraine. Kyiv says the pipeline was damaged in January by Russian air strikes, that its repair will last for weeks - but also that restoring the flow of oil would be equivalent to lifting sanctions on Moscow. While the pipeline remains out of use, Orbán has blocked the release of EU funds to Ukraine - despite approving the decision at an earlier meeting. The gathering of EU leaders on Thursday, which went late into the night, ended with many expressing statements of thinly-veiled fury at Orbán's actions. "Colleagues who have been members of the European Council far longer than I have were deeply angered by what happened today," Germany's Merz told reporters during a news conference in the early hours of Friday. "It is a gross act of disloyalty within the European Union," he said. "I am firmly convinced that it will leave deep marks." France's President Emmanuel Macron called the meeting's outcome "unprecedented", adding that the loan's release must be "implemented without delay". Council President and chairman of the talks Costa added to the chorus of discontent, describing Hungary's actions as "completely unacceptable". "Nobody can blackmail the European institutions," he said. Orbán, however, remained resolute in his stance following the meeting. "It was a tough debate, but we stood our ground," he wrote on X. "We have the right to say 'no' to the Ukrainian war loan. As long as @ZelenskyyUa does not lift the oil blockade, they will not receive any money from Brussels." The leaders' condemnation of their Hungarian counterpart centres on Orbán's broken promise at their summit in December to allow the loan to go ahead. At the time, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic gave their consent, after being exempted from any financial obligations stemming from the loan. However, Hungary is now blocking implementing legislation to allow the deal to go forward. In addition to Orbán, Slovakia's Prime Minister Robert Fico - another ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin - also refused to endorse the summit's conclusions that reaffirm the intent to release the funds to Ukraine. The release of the funds requires unanimity and the conclusions say it will be discussed at the leaders' next meeting. European Commission President Ursula Von der Leyen vowed that the loan would be delivered "one way or the other", while Macron said there would be "no plan B" for the funds, because "plan A must be implemented". Ahead of the meeting, Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky had issued a plea for the release of the funds. "For the third month now, the most important financial security guarantee for Ukraine from Europe is not working - the €90bn support package for this year and the next," he told EU leaders during the summit. "This is critical for us. It is a resource to protect lives," he said. Orbán has repeatedly stalled EU aid for Ukraine as well as successive rounds of sanctions on Russia. He is seeking another term and opinion polls suggest his party is lagging behind their main rivals. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. As war drives up gas and fuel prices, Europeans turn again to the issue of energy independence. Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A judge in Poland has ruled that Russian archaeologist Alexander Butyagin can be extradited to Ukraine, although his defence says he will appeal. Butyagin is being held in a Warsaw prison for allegedly conducting illegal excavations and plundering artefacts from the ancient city of Myrmekion in Crimea - Ukraine's peninsula annexed by Russia in 2014. If Judge Dariusz Łubowski's ruling is upheld, a final decision on extradition will rest with Poland's justice minister. Butyagin - arrested in Poland at Ukraine's request in December - denies all the allegations. If convicted, he faces up to five years in jail. Russia has demanded his immediate release, saying the case is politically motivated. Since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022, European courts in several instances have refused to extradite Russians to Ukraine, citing the possible risk of violations to the European Convention on Human Rights. The archaeologist's life and wellbeing would be at risk if he were extradited to Ukraine, Butyagin's lawyer Adam Domański has said. A senior scholar at the Hermitage, Russia's largest art museum in St Petersburg, he has since 1999 overseen the museum's excavations of Myrmekion, an ancient Greek settlement founded in Crimea in the 6th Century BC. Initially, his research was authorised by Ukraine. But when Russia annexed the peninsula in March 2014, the work continued without Kyiv's consent and carried on after the full-scale invasion eight years later. He could face a jail term of up to five years if found guilty of plundering artefacts, including 30 gold coins, resulting in damage estimated at more than $4.5m (£3.4m). Before his arrest in Warsaw on 4 December, Butyagin had travelled in Europe giving public talks to Russian-speaking audiences. He knew that a Kyiv court had issued a warrant for his arrest in April 2025 - but did not expect to be arrested in the European Union. Russia's excavations in Crimea are illegal under the 2nd protocol to The Hague Convention for the protection of cultural property in the event of armed conflict. Ukraine and most European countries are parties to the protocol, but Russia is not. Ahead of the extradition Alexander Butyagin told the BBC via his lawyer that he had kept on digging to preserve an archaeological site. He did not dispute working without Kyiv's authorisation - but rejected charges of "intentional unlawful destruction, ruin, or damage" of monuments. "Stopping our work would have affected the condition of the monument, leaving it unattended and deteriorating due to natural causes and exposed to vandals and looters," he argued. But Evelina Kravchenko, a senior researcher at Ukraine's Institute of Archaeology, said Russian archaeologists should be prevented from digging in occupied Ukraine. "I have no personal animosity for Butyagin. He is a Russian citizen who has worked in Crimea, and I believe his work has been harmful for Crimea's cultural heritage," Kravchenko told the BBC. In November 2024, Ukraine's state security service SBU said that - together with Ukrainian police and the prosecutor's office - it had "gathered evidence against a Russian citizen who is looting Ukrainian cultural heritage in temporary occupied Crimea". It said the Russian national was the head of the archaeology department at the Hermitage - but did not name him publicly. The SBU added that the archaeologist was suspected of "illegally conducting excavations at an archaeological heritage site, destruction, ruin or damage to cultural heritage sites". Butyagin is currently in a detention centre in Warsaw, and a motion to release him on bail has been turned down. Asked if he would return to digging in occupied Crimea if his appeal succeeded, the archaeologist avoided answering - saying only that he wanted to change a lot about his life and first wished to return to his family. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Volodymyr Zelensky has said Ukraine will face a deficit of missiles it is using to fight Russia due to the war in the Middle East. In an exclusive interview with the BBC, the Ukrainian president said Russia's Vladimir Putin wanted a "long war" between the US, Israel and Iran because it would weaken Kyiv, with US resources being directed elsewhere. Zelensky also claimed that US President Donald Trump was not on "any side" in the war between Russia and Ukraine and did not want to "irritate" Putin. He urged Trump and Sir Keir Starmer to meet and find common ground, after the US president's repeated criticism of the UK prime minister. Now in its third week, the conflict in the Middle East has spread across the Gulf with Iran lashing out at neighbouring states in retaliation to the US and Israel's strikes. Zelensky said he had a "very bad feeling" about the impact of the conflict on the war in Ukraine, saying negotiations towards peace are being "constantly postponed. There is one reason - war in Iran". He also said the situation was benefiting Putin because it increased energy prices, which was a problem for Ukraine, and meant there could be a "deficit" of missiles. "For Putin, a long war in Iran is a plus," he said. "In addition to energy prices, it means the depletion of US reserves, and the depletion of air defence manufacturers. So we [Ukraine] have a depletion of resources." Zelensky said there would "definitely" be a deficit of Patriot missiles which would be "a challenge", saying the question now was "when will all the stockpiles in the Middle East be exhausted". "America produces 60-65 missiles per month. Imagine, 65 missiles per month is is about 700-800 missiles per year, produced each year," he said. "And on the first day in the Middle East war, 803 missiles were used." Zelensky also spoke about his US counterpart's position on the Ukraine war, saying that Trump wanted to be a negotiator rather than take any side in Ukraine's war against Russia's illegal invasion. The Ukrainian president said he thought Trump "wants to finish this war" but added that the US president and his advisers had chosen a strategy of close dialogue with Putin, and "not to irritate him because Europe irritated him and Putin does not want to talk to Europe". The war ignited by US and Israeli strikes on Iran has spilled into a diplomatic row after Trump's reprimanding of the Nato allies and Sir Keir's supposed lack of military action. Zelensky warned against division among western leaders. Speaking to the BBC after talks with Sir Keir, the Ukrainian president said that while he would not tell Trump what to do, the pair should meet to "re-load the relationship". "I would really like President Trump to meet with Starmer... so that they have a common position," he said. In his latest attack on Tuesday, Trump branded Starmer "no Winston Churchill" and said that while he thinks the UK prime minister is a "nice man" he is "disappointed". Sir Keir's response held firm, insisting the UK will not be drawn into a wider war, with Downing Street reiterating an "enduring" US-UK relationship. Sir Keir welcomed Zelensky to Downing Street on Tuesday - the latest stop on the Ukrainian leader's tour of European capital cities. Zelensky visited Paris last week and travels to Madrid on Wednesday. The visits come as the Middle East conflict overshadows Ukraine's four-year fight against Russia's full-scale invasion. "I think it's really important that we are clear that the focus must remain on Ukraine," said Sir Keir. As part of Zelensky's visit to London, the Ukrainian leader addressed MPs in Parliament. "The regimes in Russia and Iran are brothers in hatred and that is why they are brothers in weapons," Zelensky said. "And we want regimes built on hatred, to never, never win in anything. And we want no such regime to threaten Europe or our partners." Among those in the audience in a packed Westminster committee room were Sir Keir, Nato Secretary-General Mark Rutte, Defence Secretary John Healey and leaders of opposition parties. Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to read top political analysis, gain insight from across the UK and stay up to speed with the big moments. It'll be delivered straight to your inbox every weekday. Sir Keir Starmer says it is "deeply concerning" the rapper is set to headline a festival after recent antisemitic comments. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Home to Camden Town, the British Museum and Hampstead, the council is up for election on 7 May. Lord Walker suggests the government should keep the 5p cut in place due to increased costs caused by war in the Middle East. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A new Saturday school is helping Ukrainian children build their confidence and a "sense of identity", a teacher says. Charity Ukraine Aid and Welfare offers classes on Ukrainian language, literature, history and geography in Bristol and has now expanded into South Gloucestershire. About 40 children aged 5-14 have signed up for school sessions subsidised by South Gloucestershire Council at St Michael's Centre in Stoke Gifford. "For a lot of kids it's quite hard to integrate in the community, speaking from experience myself. I think having this Ukrainian community to always fall back on gives them a lot of confidence," teacher Sofiia Biliavska added. The school was first set up in Westbury-on-Trym after some children who came to the UK as refugees were too young to have properly learned their native language, so could not communicate with loved ones back home. "If they go back it will be quite easy for them to integrate into society so we're thinking with a long-term perspective," Biliavska said. Parents at the school said they wanted their children to keep hold of their heritage. Speaking about his eight-year-old, Oleksandr said: "We would like her to continue learning the Ukrainian language, to learn Ukrainian national things, to know who she is, who she's from. "Knowing from parents is OK, but knowing from a group of other Ukrainians is better." And Hanna, another parent, said her daughter often forgot Ukrainian words. "She's asking me what language you are using," she said. "We would like to remember about our home," Hanna added. Biliavska, who is 18 years old, moved to the UK in May 2022 and teaches children Ukrainian and science. "Many of them are either Ukrainian themselves or have Ukrainian parents so it allows them to connect families really well and have a sense of identity early on," she added. The classes have been approved by the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. Antonina Grebeniuk, founder of Ukraine Aid and Welfare, said: "This is so important for preserving the national identity, our culture, Ukrainian language, it is really what we all need to do." Follow BBC Bristol on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A sanctioned Russian tanker loaded with liquid natural gas is drifting out of control in the Mediterranean with no crew on board and a gaping hole in one side, prompting warnings of a "serious risk of a major ecological disaster". An official in Italy, one of nine EU countries to write a joint letter to the European Commission urging action, has called the Arctic Metagaz an "environmental bomb" waiting to go off. The tanker, part of a shadow fleet transporting sanctioned Russian oil and gas, was badly damaged in a suspected sea drone attack near Maltese waters earlier this month. Ukraine has not commented on reports that it was responsible for crippling it. The Arctic Metagaz is now floating south away from Italian waters and the island of Lampedusa towards Libya, with Italian and Maltese officials continuing to monitor its movement. Speaking on Italy's Radio 24, the secretary of Italy's Council of Ministers, Alfredo Mantovano, said the risks from the tanker were "enormous" and warned that it could "explode at any moment". It is said to be carrying "significant" quantities of liquid natural gas, or LNG. An official in Rome told the BBC it also had 450 tonnes of fuel oil and 250 tonnes of diesel on board. On Tuesday afternoon the tanker was about 45 nautical miles (83km) from Italian territorial waters and 25 miles from the search-and-rescue zone ascribed to Libya. The Arctic Metagaz set out from the Russian port of Murmansk in February. In early March, when it went up in flames, Russian President Vladimir Putin blamed Ukraine for a "terrorist attack". But Ukraine sees such "shadow" Russian tankers as legitimate targets: they routinely sail with their transponders turned off to evade Western sanctions and the money Moscow makes from the oil and gas helps fund its ongoing war on Ukraine. Russia has also been bombing Ukraine's civilian energy infrastructure since the start of its full-scale invasion, leaving huge numbers of people without hot water or heating in the depths of winter. Recently, the number and scope of drone strikes on Russian tankers has been increasing. In December, the Ukraine's SBU intelligence service said it had crippled three vessels in two weeks in the Black Sea, including the Dashan which it said had suffered "critical damage". Just over a week later, the Quendil oil tanker was hit in the Mediterranean. It was said to be empty at the time. It is now two weeks since the Arctic Metagaz was badly damaged by a series of explosions and fire. The crew were located and rescued by the Libyan coastguard. Libyan port officials said initially that the tanker had sunk, but it has been floating, unmanned and dangerous ever since. The World Wildlife Fund has said it is on "maximum alert", warning that a potential spill could cause fires and long-lasting pollution in an area of "exceptional ecological value" that is home to numerous protected species. Pope Leo XIV addressed thousands of worshippers gathered in St Peter's Square on Easter Sunday in his first address as pontiff. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Roberto Mazzarella has been on the run for more than a year and was living under a false name, police say. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Iranian and Russian regimes are "brothers in hatred", Volodymyr Zelensky has told MPs and peers, as he warned about the dangers of drone warfare. Addressing around 120 parliamentarians in a Westminster committee room, the Ukrainian president highlighted how Tehran was selling Shahed 'kamikaze' drones to Moscow, which had been used in Ukraine. He also warned against easing sanctions on Russian oil, saying it was "crucial" to keep up the pressure against Moscow. The US has temporarily eased sanctions on some Russian oil in an attempt to tackle surging prices triggered by the conflict in the Middle East. Among those in the audience in a packed committee room were Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, Nato secretary-general Mark Rutte, Defence Secretary John Healey and leaders of opposition parties. In his speech, Zelensky sought to link the headline-generating war in the Middle East with the long-running conflict in Ukraine. He argued that Ukrainians were now pioneers in modern warfare and schooled in techniques they could share with allies. In its fight against Russia, Ukraine has been using cheap, mass-produced interceptor drones to defend its skies. Zelensky said there were now 201 Ukrainian military experts in the Middle East, with another 44 ready to deploy, who were sharing their knowledge on how to defend against Iranian drones. He added that Ukraine was "ready to offer similar deals to all our reliable partners". On a TV screen, Zelensky demonstrated how Ukraine was mapping Russian strikes and defensive action against them in real time. He explained how using technology as simple as an iPad allowed Ukrainian commanders to control the country's security. Zelensky added that during a meeting earlier at Buckingham Palace, he gave the King the iPad "as a sign of respect and gratitude", to "strengthen our cooperation with the United Kingdom". Earlier, Sir Keir said "the focus must remain on Ukraine" despite the Iran war, ahead of a meeting with Zelensky. Welcoming the Ukrainian leader to No 10, the prime minister said: "Putin can't be the one who benefits from a conflict in Iran, whether that's oil prices or the dropping of sanctions." During their meeting, the leaders agreed a new defence partnership aimed at tackling cheap attack drones. Downing Street said the deal would bring together "Ukrainian expertise and the UK's industrial base" to manufacture and supply drones and other capabilities. Under the partnership between the UK and Ukraine, closer co-operation in the defence industries will also be sought with third countries as part of efforts to bolster international security. Britain will also give £500,000 to fund an AI centre of excellence in Kyiv. It comes as the US-Israeli war with Iran enters a third week, while US President Donald Trump continues to criticise the UK and other countries over the extent of their response to the conflict. Rising oil prices are fuelling Russia's war machine, while Ukraine's allies are distracted and divided over the Middle East. Zelensky is currently on a tour of European capitals to shore up support and keep his conflict at the forefront of allies' minds. Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to keep up with the inner workings of Westminster and beyond. Sir Keir Starmer says it is "deeply concerning" the rapper is set to headline a festival after recent antisemitic comments. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Home to Camden Town, the British Museum and Hampstead, the council is up for election on 7 May. Lord Walker suggests the government should keep the 5p cut in place due to increased costs caused by war in the Middle East. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An oil spill which has been blamed on a Russian attack in Ukraine has polluted a major river in Moldova, prompting authorities to cut water supplies to the northern city of Balti. Ukrainian authorities said oil began leaking after a Russian strike on the Dniester hydroelectric plant on 7 March, with the first slicks appearing three days later on the Dniester river - a vital source for most of Moldova and the Odesa region in southwestern Ukraine. Moldova imposed a 15-day state of alert in the Dniester river basin on Monday as a precaution. Russia's ambassador was summoned by the foreign ministry in protest and shown a bottle of cloudy water from the polluted river. He refused to comment to reporters as he left the meeting, according to Moldovan media. Moldovan Environment Minister Gheorghe Hajder said supplies would only be restored once oil levels had been brought down to the recommended limit of 0.1mg  per litre of water. He added that Monday night's readings were too high for northern areas including Balti, the third-largest city in Moldova, and further results on Tuesday would indicate whether or not the water could be pumped back into the pipes. Three other northern towns have been hit by the water crisis. The pollution has also affected water supplies in Ukraine, with contamination in the  Chernivtsi, Vinnytsya and Odesa regions, according to Ukrainian Deputy Minister Iryna Ovcharenko. Hajder said earlier that Ukrainian officials had assured him the source of the oil pollution had been contained. Schools in the Balti area have moved to online learning, while authorities focus on delivering tankers of drinkable water to the local population. Maia Sandu, Moldova's pro-European president, has been a strong supporter of Ukraine since Russia's full-scale invasion in February 2022, praising Kyiv for protecting her own country from attack. She has said Russia "bears full responsibility" for the oil pollution. Russia has long accused Sandu of being "Russiaphobic". She won a second term as president of Moldova in 2024 despite what the EU called "unprecedented interference [in the election] by Russia". Moldova has a population of 2.4 million, but Russia still has a military base in the Russian-speaking, breakaway region of Transnistria, which lies along much of Moldova's eastern border with Ukraine. Local TV reports say oil has been spotted in Transnistria although officials there do not expect to impose restrictions on drinking water. Meanwhile, Moldovan police have said an "active" Russian drone, armed with an "explosive device", has landed 500m (1640ft) inside the Ukraine-Moldova border in the village of Tudora. A rescue charity says it will continue to monitor two swans at Cleethorpes Country Park. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
For Ukraine the financial frontline is perhaps the unseen battlefield in the war with Russia. Keeping the economy on a level footing isn't just about today, but central to the future that they've spent four years fighting for. "We don't want to be just a poor neighbour [to the EU]," says Ukraine's Finance Minister Sergii Marchenko. "We want to provide for Europe, something which they lack," he explains, in reference to the military expertise that the country has reluctantly gained since February 2022. Marchenko adds that the "very painful" experience his country has gained could help the rest of the continent defend itself. Membership of the EU is a top priority for Kyiv, so there is a lot of gratitude for the bloc's financial support, which is bringing the two closer together, and aiming to give Ukraine the advantage over Russia. A new €90bn ($105bn; £79bn) loan from the EU will help cover the shortfall in Ukraine's budget over the next two years. It's been approved by the European Parliament, and the first payment could be made in April. That loan is the biggest share of a $136.5bn (£101bn) international support package, without which Marchenko says his country cannot survive after everything it's been through. "Our strong army depends on our strong economy, because all of our resources, which we mobilize internally, we channel... to defend our nation," he says. "We are grateful for the support of other nations to help us, but definitely Ukraine's taxpayers are doing the best help for our army." In December 2024, taxes in Ukraine were increased for the first time since the war began, including on personal incomes, small businesses and financial institutions. That's part of the reason why domestic sources are expected to bring $67.5bn into government coffers this year, a 15% increase from a year earlier. However, the government's budget for 2026 includes spending plans worth about $112bn, with about 60% of that going towards the army. That leaves a shortfall of around $45bn. To bridge the gap the government is trying to get contentious new tax increases through parliament before the end of this month. As part of the terms of a new $8.1bn loan that the International Monetary Fund (IMF) recently approved, digital platforms in Ukraine will have to pay more tax, and exemptions to value added tax will be reduced. Kyiv received the first $1.5bn from the IMF at the start of this month. Ahead of that the IMF's mission chief for Ukraine, Gavin Grey, said that with its spending needs "expected to remain very high" the country needed to live within its means. In addition to outside help, "Ukraine will also need to do more to tackle tax evasion and avoidance, and mobilizing domestic revenue in the near-term", he said. The IMF support is crucial to unlocking the EU money, which has become even more significant since US financial support dried up. Ukraine could run out of funds by the end of April so is also rushing to meet other EU conditions. A government source said that social and humanitarian expenditures remain its "key priorities". However, Hungary's Prime Minister Viktor Orban has held up the EU loan, amid accusations that Ukraine is imposing an "oil blockade" on his country. Kyiv says slow repairs to the pipeline delivering Russian oil to Hungary are because its repair crews have been injured by further Russian attacks. The row means that for Ukraine there is a lot riding on the outcome of next month's Hungarian elections. Some though, think the reforms Ukraine is implementing are the wrong path to ensure the war-torn country's economic survival. "We believe that Ukraine, by continuing the war and increasing taxes, is moving toward default and economic collapse", says the think tank the Ukrainian Institute of the Future in a recent assessment of the economy. The war is also straining Russia's much larger economy, however its military effort is worth 5.1% of GDP. That compares to 27% of Ukraine's GDP going on its military. It means that after four years of war with Russia, Ukraine's government is dependent on foreign aid to pay for spending ranging from pensions to healthcare and education. That includes a plan to expand a programme for free school meals to cover the whole country from September, and this year's 30% pay rise for teachers, who the government says are playing a crucial role in supporting children through the war. Yet inflation remains a problem despite falling from a wartime peak of 26.6% to the current 7.4%. It means that many businesses and consumers across the country are also feeling the financial strain of the war. On the snow-covered streets of Kyiv, 65-year-old Tetiana explained the challenges. "I'm a pensioner and I have to work because the pension is small and not enough. Prices for food and utilities have increased." Mykyta, 19, works in the kitchen of a restaurant. It's one of many companies that are struggling to get by. "Salaries are not very high and there are problems with people. The team is small, because it's hard to find people to fill the staff." He adds that "During power outages, the kitchen doesn't work, we have to struggle with the generator". That's a struggle many businesses share, with Ukraine's central bank saying recently that "The difficult situation in the energy sector will continue to restrain business activity for a long time". It's why it cut the forecast for economic growth this year from 2% to 1.8%, although the latest IMF forecast is for growth of 1.8 to 2.5%. For the economy as a whole, "The biggest challenge is that we haven't sufficient electricity", says Marchenko He explains it means that companies can't be as productive as they want to be, and are having to increase the price of their products to cover the use of generators. That's why he says "All of our governmental programs now channel our resources to partly restore capacity to generate electricity". The importance of doing that and boosting economy growth was underlined by last month's estimate of the reconstruction and recovery bill for Ukraine put together by its own government alongside the EU, World Bank and UN. The price tag of $588bn is almost two and a half times the size of the entire economy, and includes putting right damage to housing, transport and other infrastructure, as well as removing mines from areas around the frontline. The challenges haven't stopped the president of the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which represents more than 8,000 companies across the country, from being optimistic about the future. "Despite the war we see how [foreign] business are interested in, and starting to invest in, Ukraine," says Gennadiy Chyzhykov. "The new trend, we see a lot of delegations who visit Ukraine asking what we need, and how to start to prepare for after the war, reconstruction, the rebuilding. "They believe in the victory, and they believe in the good business in Ukraine." However, a shortage of workers with the right skills is an ongoing challenge that shows no signs of abating given that millions of people have either joined the army or left the country. The UN's International Labour Organisation has suggested there will be a shortage of 8.7 million workers when it comes to reconstruction, and some business leaders have suggested the answer is to import workers from abroad. A lot of support is coming from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), which has spent more than $10bn in Ukraine since the war began. "I think the challenge will be immense but it can be managed," says its president Odile Renaud-Basso. She says many foreign companies are willing to invest but "having a real just peace, credible peace settlement, will be key, for investors to be sure that there is not a risk of the war will start again". Yet with little sign of any end to the war she adds that the EBRD has the resources "to continue to support Ukraine in the war for how long it takes". The ongoing struggle both on the battlefield and balancing the government's books means Ukraine's finance minister admits: "We need support, military support, and budgetary support." However, Marchenko says the challenges of a wartime economy are driving changes that could lead to a "better economy for the future". "The Ukrainian people and our government and economy are resilient and determined to fight this war, because we defend ourselves and we will." A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has accused European allies of seeking to "blackmail" Kyiv into reopening a pipeline transporting Russian oil to Hungary and Slovakia. He said restoring the flow of Russian crude oil through Ukraine into the European Union (EU) would be like lifting economic sanctions on Moscow. Ukraine says the Soviet-era Druzhba oil pipeline was damaged by Russian air strikes in January and has yet to be repaired. Hungary depends on Russian energy and is blocking both fresh EU sanctions on Moscow and a vital €90bn ($103bn; £78bn) loan for Kyiv until the pipeline is reopened. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban has made hostility towards Ukraine a key issue ahead of April elections. His party is entering the race trailing behind in opinion polls. The EU has urged Zelensky to repair the pipeline quickly and is asking him to allow inspectors in to visit the damage. Some EU officials fear Zelensky's resistance may help Orban win re-election. But talking to reporters in Kyiv, including the BBC, Zelensky said he was simply opposed in principle to allowing Russian oil to transit through Ukraine while the EU sanctioned its sale elsewhere. He said: "We either sell Russian oil or we don't. Because [the EU] are forcing me to restore Druzhba. "How is this different from lifting sanctions on the Russians? Why can we in one case tell the United States that we oppose lifting sanctions, while on the other hand forcing Ukraine to resume oil transit through Druzhba – and at a political price that effectively pays for anti-European policies?" Zelensky's comments come after the US loosened sanctions preventing other countries buying Russian oil in order to ease the energy supply crunch sparked by the US-Israel war with Iran. The move has drawn criticism from a number of European leaders. "If we have decided to restore Russian oil supplies, then I want them to know that I am against it. And there is no need to accuse me of blocking anything. I am not blocking it," Zelensky said. "I am saying openly: I am against it. But if I am given conditions that Ukraine will not receive weapons, then, excuse me, I am powerless on this issue. I told our friends in Europe that this is called blackmail." He added that the EU decision to loan Ukraine €90bn had been adopted by all 27 countries and must be implemented. Talking about the widening conflict in the Middle East, Zelensky described his country's interceptor drones as "Ukrainian oil" and said he was ready to agree a $50bn joint production deal with the US. He said the US had "reached out to us several times" and claimed Washington was "very interested" in a deal. Since that war broke out, many countries - especially in the Gulf - have asked Ukraine for help defending against cheap Iranian-designed drones. Ukraine is a world leader in both producing cheap interceptor drones but also in learning how best to use them against almost nightly Russian attacks. "For us, this is like oil," Zelensky told reporters. "The production of modern drones and Ukraine's relevant expertise is our today's Ukrainian oil." He emphasised that Ukraine would want both money and technology in return for any agreements. He added that Ukraine had proposed a joint production drone deal with the US last year but it had not been agreed. "We were ready then, and are still fully ready now. We would welcome such a shared use of experience. That is why we made this proposal," he said. The Ukrainian leader said that since the US-Israel attack on Iran, the US had reached out to Ukraine several times: "There were several requests - either for assistance to a particular country or for support for Americans. Our military is in contact at various levels. We received letters, calls, and requests across all military institutions." Zelensky also warned about the risks posed to Ukraine by the war in the Middle East. "We do not want to lose the Americans; we speak about this openly," the Ukrainian leader said. "The United States is, without question, currently more focused on the Middle East… There may be delays in delivering certain weapons or reductions in the volume of critical defensive supplies for us." And he opposed the US 30-day waiver on sanctions against Russian oil already at sea: "We do not support such a policy. I believe that lifting sanctions on Russia will not help the world; it will only help Russia." Zelensky added: "We certainly do not support relaxing the sanctions policy. And overall, this war in the Middle East does not help us, here and now, although we have no illusions about the Iranian regime and we absolutely do not support it - and that is putting it mildly." The US's temporary sanctions waiver was expected to last until 11 April, according to US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent. Vladimir Putin's economic envoy, Kirill Dmitriev, has said that the lifting of sanctions shows Russia is integral to the stability of the global energy market and that further loosening them was "inevitable". The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has accused Russia of attempting to exploit the war in the Middle East to cause "even greater destruction" in his country. He said Ukraine needed air-defence systems regardless of what was happening elsewhere. The US-Israeli war with Iran has led to many air-defence missiles being expended fending off retaliatory attacks. Zelensky's comments came after Russia launched another massive aerial bombardment overnight into Saturday in which at least five people were killed. About 500 drones and missiles were launched during the latest wave of Russian strikes, he said. Though most were intercepted, they caused casualties and damage across the country, he added. "The main target for the Russians was the energy infrastructure of the Kyiv region, but unfortunately there were also direct hits on and damage to ordinary residential buildings, schools, and civilian businesses," Zelensky stated. Four people were killed in the Kyiv region and many more injured in the latest strikes, Ukrainian officials have said. Later, a Russian strike on a residential area near Zaporizhzhia reportedly claimed another life and wounded 18 people. The 430 drones and 68 missiles do not constitute the largest Russian bombardment Ukraine has seen, but it is among the more sizeable ones launched in recent months. Zelensky wrote on social media: "Russia will try to exploit the war in the Middle East to cause even greater destruction here in Europe, in Ukraine." The Ukrainian leader noted that the attacks were a reminder to Kyiv's partners that air defences were a "daily necessity" for Ukraine, urging them to supply more as quickly as possible. His remarks reflect that the missiles used by air-defence systems are rapidly being expended in the Middle East as US-aligned Gulf states seek to neutralise Iranian missile and drone attacks. Zelensky has already expressed concerns that the war could leave Ukraine struggling to source defensive weaponry. At the same time, the oil supply crisis that has been caused by Iran effectively blockading the Strait of Hormuz - a key shipping route - could also see Russia's war economy benefit. After the price of oil rose to around $100 (£75) a barrel, the Trump administration temporarily lifted sanctions on Russian oil already loaded onto vessels in a bid to contain the price. While Moscow welcomed the move, Zelensky, along with several European leaders, criticised the decision. Peace talks spearheaded by the US aiming to halt more than four years of fighting in Ukraine have been derailed by the war with Iran. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The decision by the US to ease some sanctions on Russian oil sales has provoked a chorus of criticism from European leaders. President Emmanuel Macron of France said there was "no justification" for it. Chancellor Friedrich Merz of Germany said the decision was "wrong". EU Council President Antonio Costa said it was "very concerning". Russia is already benefiting from rising oil prices driven by the Middle East war. These European leaders fear that allowing Russia to sell more of its oil will give an even bigger boost to Kremlin coffers. Russia has been under US and European sanctions since it launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. The US under President Donald Trump had also imposed sanctions on countries buying Russian oil and gas - big consumers like India. But with world markets rattled by the US and Israeli war against Iran - and the Iranian retaliation against their allies in the Gulf, some major energy producers for world markets - Trump has decided to ease sanctions. Late on Thursday, US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent announced a temporary suspension of sanctions on Russian oil already on tankers at sea a temporary suspension of sanctions on Russian oil already on tankers at sea. At a news conference in Paris, where he met his French counterpart, President Volodymyr Zelensky said this US decision alone was worth $10bn (£7.5bn) to Russia. "This certainly does not help peace," he said. That is because the more revenues Russia can earn, the more pressure it can ease on its war economy. Such is the squeeze on Russian public finances in recent months, the Kremlin had to sell gold reserves and increase consumption taxes to boost revenues. With extra oil sales, Russia will now be able to buy more weapons and soldiers to throw into the front line. For European leaders, this could not have come at a worse time. Ukraine has survived a brutal winter. It has started taking some territory back from Russia. It has struck targets deep inside Russian territory. At the same time, Russia was facing economic tensions and struggling to recruit enough soldiers to replace the 1,000 or so casualties, both dead and wounded, it continues to suffer almost daily. But now Russia is being given an economic boost and its opponents are distracted by war in the Middle East. It continues to talk to the US - there was a meeting only days ago between senior Trump and Kremlin officials in Miami, about which little is known. In fact, Ukraine is struggling for cash because promised EU funds worth €90bn ($103bn; £77bn) are being delayed by a row with Hungary. Kyiv is under pressure from the EU to reopen a pipeline - that passes through its territory - that was damaged by Russian strikes in January. It normally carries - extraordinarily - Russian oil to Hungary and elsewhere and Budapest accuses Kyiv of dragging its feet repairing the pipeline. The authorities in Ukraine say the damage is severe and will take time to fix. So the war in Iran is having - perhaps inevitably - an impact far outside the Middle East. President Trump's envoys have been leading efforts to end the war in Ukraine. But the US president does not appear to have taken on board the views of Ukraine or its European allies with his unilateral decision to ease pressure on Russia - a move that will, inevitably, mean peace talks will be less likely to make much progress for the time being. The fear among European chancelleries is that this could get worse and the temporary US easing of sanctions on Russia could become permanent. A spokesman for UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said all allies should maintain pressure on Russia and its war chest. "The best way to continue to stop Russia supporting hostile actors is to continue on collective pressure and end the war in Ukraine," he said. But for now, that pressure is not collective, it is being reduced - and the Kremlin is reaping the harvest. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Trump administration's decision to ease sanctions on countries buying Russian oil has been welcomed by the Kremlin and has sparked deep concern among pro-Ukraine campaigners. The US waiver, active for one month, will let countries buy up Russian oil which, under current sanctions, has been floating at sea, unable to be sold. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said the "tailored, short-term" policy move would reduce the economic impact of the US-Israel war with Iran. But Bill Browder, a sanctions campaigner and leading critic of Putin's regime, told the BBC the move was "a terrible decision that will enrich Vladimir Putin and prolong the war in Ukraine". The new policy marks a sharp about-turn for US policy. Previously Washington came down hard on countries purchasing Russian oil, slapping a huge 50% tariff on imports from India in August, over allegations the country was buying Russian oil, and thereby helping to finance the war in Ukraine. As a result, much of the sanctioned oil was left on tankers off the coast of India and other Asian countries, with traders searching for buyers willing to take it. Putin's economic envoy, Kirill Dmitriev, said the move showed Russia was integral to the stability of the global energy market and that the further loosening of sanctions was "inevitable". Bessent has insisted that Russia will only see a limited financial boost from the sale of the oil, while the move addressed the "instability posed by the terrorist Iranian regime". However, Benjamin Hilgenstock, head of macroeconomic research and strategy at the Kyiv School of Economics, argued the move was "a serious bailout" for Putin's regime. He estimated monthly Russian oil exports could be boosted by around $10bn (£7.5bn), with half of this being paid in tax straight into the government's coffers. Economic pressure is mounting in Russia, with oil exports in February hitting their lowest since Moscow's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. If the crisis in Iran were to last only a month or two, the impact would be limited, but if it lasted much longer it would put Russia "back in quite a comfortable situation", he said. The Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air (CREA) puts a much lower estimate on the amount of oil Russia could sell under the waiver. But the Finnish research organisation says the move would still allow Russia to clear some stocks, and boost production. Russia had been forced to slow down its oil production due to storage constraints, CREA energy analyst Isaac Levi said. Allowing more Russian oil onto the market could help ease the upward pressure on the oil price. But Warren Patterson, head of commodities strategy at Dutch bank ING, said the US move would "only scratch the surface" of the supply disruption in the Persian Gulf. CREA estimates Russia has around 50m barrels of oil at sea it can now sell under the waiver. Russia has said it has double that amount of oil at sea, or 100m barrels, but still less than a single day's global demand for oil, at 104m barrels. "There is only one solution for the oil market and that is getting oil flowing through the Strait of Hormuz," Patterson said. Patterson said the countries most likely to buy up the newly-available Russian oil would be India and other Asian countries who have been most affected by the closure of the strait. Around a fifth of oil traded globally passes through the Strait of Hormuz in normal times. That trade has hit a virtual standstill, reducing the supply of oil on the global market, raising fears that disruption may go on for some time, and pushing the price up sharply. In turn that has worried politicians who see a renewed threat to inflation through higher energy costs. Hilgenstock said the crisis in the Strait of Hormuz had pushed the West's anti-Russian sanctions regime beyond its limits. Sanctions against Russia relied on the global oil market being able to work around the hit to overall oil supplies, he said. "The challenge in the Strait of Hormuz is so massive, that ability is gone for now." "There is not much that we can do until it is over." While the overall impact from the US move may not prove significant, pro-Ukraine campaigners have said it marks a symbolic shift in the Western consensus away from applying maximum pressure on Russia. Alexander Kirk, sanctions campaigner at human rights group Urgewald, said the message to the Kremlin is "wait long enough and the West will blink". "Russia has already made billions from fossil fuel exports since the strikes on Iran began. "Allowing more Russian oil onto the market now only helps refill the Kremlin's war chest," he added. Bill Browder said he hoped that other governments would not follow in the US's footsteps. "It makes no sense whatsoever to lift sanctions. The Chinese, Indians and Turks have been buying all of Russia's oil all along," he said. "The only thing lifting sanctions does is puts more money in Putin's pockets and less in these countries'." Britain, Canada and Germany have spoken out against the easing of sanctions, with UK energy minister Michael Shanks suggesting Putin would see it as "a chance to invest in the war machine". German Chancellor Friedrich Merz said six out of seven G7 leaders believed anti-Russian sanctions should remain in place. Hilgenstock said the crisis in the Strait of Hormuz was, from the perspective of Russia policy, akin to an "act of God" that had pushed the West's anti-Russian sanctions regime beyond its limits. Sanctions against Russia relied on the global oil market being able to work around the hit to overall oil supplies, he said. "The challenge in the Strait of Hormuz is so massive, that ability is gone for now." "There is not much that we can do until it is over." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Images of the devastation in Ukraine caused by four years of war with Russia, from bombed apartment blocks to the deaths of at least 100,000 soldiers, have become familiar to all of us. But not as visible, beneath the high-profile destruction, experts fear the very soil of Ukraine may be poisoned. Fields of grain have been turned into battlefields, polluted by shells, bombs and burned-out tanks. Now farming experts from the Royal Agricultural University in Gloucestershire and Sumy National Agrarian University (SNAU) in Ukraine have analysed the long term impact. Much of the soil has been contaminated, they say, by toxic elements and heavy metals which will pollute the land and crops grown on it "for years to come". So how do you clean up the country known as "Europe's breadbasket"? Soon after Russian forces invaded Ukraine in 2022, farming experts at the Royal Agricultural University (RAU) near Cirencester realised there would be a big impact on farmland. "We knew there was a serious threat to global food security," explained Prof Mark Horton, Pro-Vice Chancellor at the RAU. "We're looking at millions of shell holes, missile impacts, drone impacts, glide bombs - each of these leaves different residues and different remains on the farmland." Prof Horton's team set up a twinning relationship with Sumy National Agricultural University in eastern Ukraine, just 30 km (18.6 miles) from the Russian border. Ukrainian researchers took soil samples from battlefields, in craters and around burned out tanks. It is thought to be the first time soil has been analysed while the war is still raging. A leading Ukrainian soil scientist, Dr Olena Melnyk, joined the Gloucestershire team to co-lead the project. "We found cadmium, cobalt, copper, zinc, and nickel," she explained. "These heavy metals have a very high level of toxicity, and really they can cause a carcinogenic, teratogenic, effect to human beings." The scientists knew this massive pollution was happening in what is often described as the "breadbasket of Europe". Before the war, Ukraine was the biggest exporter of sunflower seeds in the world, and the seventh biggest grain supplier. Grain exports earned Ukraine $27.8bn (£23.8bn) in 2021. Grain ships and ports have been a major target in the war, with Russia frequently trying to cut off Ukraine's most lucrative overseas trade. In the four years of the conflict, more than 800 square kilometres (a million square metres) of soil have been contaminated by bombs and projectiles, according to Ukraine's deputy minister of economy Ihor Bezkaravainyi. Addressing a conference of all the scientists on the project held in Cirencester this week, Bezkaravainyi described his country's soil as "the foundation of our whole economy". They have counted more than 1,100,000 craters in farmland. But while the big picture is clear, the detail really matters. Dr Melnyk and the team knew they could not tell farmers to stop farming all the fields affected by war. They needed to know precisely where the soil was contaminated, and where it was safe. To do that, they have taken more than 8,000 soil samples, many of them from fields still near the front line of the war. Analysing this many soil samples and the data produced from them is a huge complex task. Back in Cirencester, Dr David O'Connor showed me a new kind of "elemental microscope" that can be used to identify traces of dangerous elements in soil. His team have supplied this kind of equipment to the Ukrainian researchers, and trained them in how to use it. And, in a war that has brought little good news to Ukrainians, the results have been surprisingly encouraging. "Interestingly, we haven't found huge quantities of heavy metals in the craters,"  O'Connor said. While the craters left by bombs and missiles look dramatic, they actually did not yield highly-contaminated soil. Instead, it was land where tanks had burned out and helicopters or drones had crashed that had the worst readings. Dr O'Connor explained: "On these Ukrainian fields, we are finding a large number of destroyed military vehicles. And when we take soil samples from those locations, that's where we're seeing high levels of elements such as lead and zinc, which are  toxic." The team are still analysing all the data before it can be published in academic journals. But already Dr Melnyk says there are practical results for Ukrainian farmers. "We don't need to withdraw the whole area from agricultural use," she said. "We just have to identify these areas - that we call hotspots - and we have to inform farmers what to do." Working with Ukrainian authorities, the team from Gloucestershire aims to teach farmers how to seal off areas that are highly contaminated. They are also developing special ways to 'remediate' - or clean up - the soil from these toxic elements. "Our land can continue to grow food for our people," Dr Melnyk concluded. "And feed the rest of the world too." Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. Zac Summers-Cameron died in 2025, aged 22, after his testicular cancer was originally misdiagnosed. Lester Murphy says he wants to inspire others who have been diagnosed the neurological disorder. A collection of photos from Bristol, Somerset, Wiltshire and Gloucestershire in early spring. Councils are considering permanent options as replacing scaffolding would cost £600,000. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
War-torn Ukraine "will stop at nothing" to prevent Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and his Fidesz party winning the upcoming Hungarian elections, the Hungarian government claims. Physical violence against the prime minister and his family, and attacks or sabotage of key energy installations, are being prepared, ministers allege. The Ukrainian government, in turn, accuses its Hungarian counterpart of whipping up a hate campaign against it to frighten Hungarians into voting Fidesz back into office. A third party is in the middle: Russia. The Financial Times reported on Wednesday morning that the Social Design Agency, a Kremlin-linked media consultancy firm, was preparing a mass disinformation campaign in Hungary, to bolster Orbán and discredit the opposition Tisza Party and its leader, Peter Magyar. With just 30 days to go until the parliamentary election in Hungary, some analysts believe the anti-Ukraine hysteria proves that Orbán is panicking in the face of probable defeat. His Fidesz party trails to Tisza by 39% to 50% in the latest poll. Others say Orbán knows his electorate well - and that if they can be convinced that the country is in mortal danger, he could win a remarkable fifth consecutive victory on 12 April. At the core of the dispute is the disruption of the Druzhba (Friendship) pipeline on which Hungarian and Hungarian-run Slovak refineries depend. Oil deliveries through the pipeline stopped on 27 January, after a Russian drone strike caused a fire at the Brody oil hub in western Ukraine. No oil has arrived in Hungary since then. Last week, Orbán produced satellite images which, according to him, show that the pipeline is intact. He and his ministers accuse Ukraine of delaying repairs, in order to harm Orban's re-election chances, by causing a fuel shortage in Hungary. "The Orbán government is not telling the full truth," András Rácz a security analyst, at the German Council on Foreign Relations, told the BBC, regarding Hungarian government claims that no technical obstacles remain to restarting the flow of Russian oil to Hungary. In the 27 January Russian attack, Rácz said, an oil tank containing 75 million litres of crude oil at Brody was damaged, and to save the oil and prevent an environmental disaster, it was pumped into the pipeline for storage. The presence of that oil, and other technical damage resulting from the first and a subsequent Russian attack, prevent the restoration of supply. Ukraine says it could take six weeks to repair. The Ukraine hysteria in Hungary takes many forms. Giant billboards and city lights posters cover the country. Some show Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky begging for money from EU chiefs. Others juxtapose Zelensky and Peter Magyar. His Tisza is accused of planning to get Hungary involved in the Ukraine war, by joining what is dubbed "the pro-war lobby" in Brussels - something Magyar vehemently denies. "We are the real party of peace," Magyar tells crowds at his daily rallies across the country. Orbán and his ministers tour the country, too, addressing what they bill as "anti-war" assemblies of Fidesz supporters. The most shocking video - an artificial intelligence production by Fidesz - shows a little girl asking her weeping mother when her dad will come home. This cuts to a firing squad where her blindfolded father is about to be executed. This will happen to Hungarians, the video suggests, if they vote for Tisza. Facebook has rejected readers' complaints that the advert violates its rules on both political and violence grounds. In a highly unusual move in peacetime, the army has been deployed to patrol key energy installations - "to reassure' the public" in the Fidesz narrative or "to frighten" them in the Tisza one. In the eastern city of Debrecen, Defence Minister Kristof Szalay-Bobrovniczky warned that the city could be a target for "hybrid operations" such as sabotage. The dominant pro-government media act as an echo-chamber for the government message. "Many people contact us, asking why, if the danger of attack is real, the government does not provide information about air-raid shelters," Tamas Polgar Toth, a journalist at the independent Debreciner news portal told the BBC. The Fidesz mayor of Debrecen, Laszlo Papp, later told the portal that this was being considered. On 21 February, Orbán vetoed the delivery of the EU loan, until the oil flow through the Druzhba pipeline was restored. Ukraine has resorted to a €1.5bn loan from the International Monetary Fund to tide it over until the dispute is settled. But on 4 March, Zelensky appeared to exacerbate the stand-off. "We hope that no-one in the European Union will block the €90bn (£78bn) [of EU aid, currently vetoed by Hungary]. Otherwise we will give that person's address to our armed forces so they can call on him and speak to him in their own language," Zelensky said. He did not name Orbán. The Hungarian prime minister was not pleased. "They want to get rid of us, with threats if possible, because if nice words don't work, then with threats and blackmail," Orbán told state radio on 6 March. A day earlier two vehicles of the Ukrainian state savings Oschadbank were seized crossing Hungary. The TEK anti-terror troops used in the operation were depicted on the front cover of the independent HVG weekly on Wednesday as Viktor Orbán's "private army" moving gold bars around the symbol of the Tisza party. Pro-government media allege that one of the lawyers at the company representing the Ukrainian bank as it tries to get back its money and vehicles is an ardent Tisza supporter. A decree issued by the government on Monday ordered prosecutors to investigate "whether Hungarian criminal organisations, terrorist organisations or political organisations present in Hungary may have benefited from the transported assets". On Wednesday, several members of a so-called fact-finding mission set up by the Hungarian government entered Ukraine by car. Their aim was to report on the Druzhba. "Our job is to assess the status of the pipeline and create conditions for its restart," Deputy Energy Minister Gábor Czepek said in a Facebook post. But Ukraine said the group were being treated as tourists. "This group of individuals holds no official status, nor do they have any scheduled official meetings; therefore, it is fundamentally incorrect to refer to them as a delegation," a statement from Ukraine's foreign ministry said. The aftermath brought another sharp exchange between the neighbours. Hungary's Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó accused Zelensky of lying after the Ukrainian president said he "was not aware" of a Hungarian delegation arriving in Ukraine – and published an official note from the Hungarian embassy in Kyiv to prove his point. In its response, Ukraine said it had already informed the Hungarians that "the dates for the visit proposed in the above-mentioned note from the embassy are not acceptable for the Ukrainian side". A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Teams of Ukrainian military experts have been sent to Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia to help them defend against drones being launched from Iran in retaliation for the massive US and Israeli air attacks. Others are also helping the US defend its military presence in Jordan, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. In a video address, Zelensky said Ukraine had "the greatest experience in the world in countering attack drones" – a reference to expertise built up over the more than four years of attacks by Russia on its neighbour. Ukraine says the US and 10 more countries across the Middle East and Europe have asked for help countering the threat of drones that have wrought much damage. There has been no comment by any of the countries concerned. Last week President Trump said he would take help from "any country" that offered it, including Ukraine. In his address, Zelensky said one of Ukraine's top officials, Rustem Umerov, secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, was on his way to the Gulf, along with military, intelligence and defence officials to prepare what he called "concrete agreements". "Ukraine has the greatest experience in the world in countering attack drones," Zelensky said, adding that "without our experience, it will be very difficult for the Gulf region, the entire Middle East, and partners in Europe and America to build strong protection". "We are ready to help those who help us, help Ukraine." The air defences of some countries in the Middle East have struggled to cope with incoming Iranian drones, using million-dollar missiles against cheap Shahed unmanned aircraft. Ukraine, instead, uses cheap, mass-produced interceptor drones to keep their skies relatively safe. It is now offering Gulf countries both its weapons and its expertise. But there are political risks if people in Ukraine were to ask why drones are being sent to the Gulf when they are badly needed here. That is why Zelensky is repeatedly making clear that Ukraine must get something back in return for any help. "Those now seeking Ukraine's help must continue to assist our own defence - first and foremost, our air defence," he said. Primarily that would mean giving Ukraine more Patriot and other air-defence that Kyiv needs not to bring down Russian attack drones but its fast missiles that are much harder to defend against. Ukraine also hopes to use the sale of interceptor drones not only to earn more funds for its depleted coffers but also to win more friends and allies in the Gulf which have tried to avoid taking sides in Russia's war on Ukraine. The fact the tables have been turned and Western allies are now asking Ukraine for help has not been lost on people here in Kyiv. But some Ukrainian figures fear there are risks of Zelensky asking too much of his Western allies and overselling his country's drone expertise. Eyebrows were raised when the presidential office confirmed that it had offered the US a drone deal a year ago and it had been turned down. In an interview with an Irish blogger, Caolan Robertson, Zelensky said it was a "good feeling" that so many partners were asking Kyiv for help. "The Americans asked us and, of course, I'm very proud that we can help American partners." Asked if he had cards to play, Zelensky said: "We held them like a good player. You can have good cards, but it's important not to show everyone that you have them. I think we had them a year ago, too, but we didn't show them. Now, however, everyone understands that they are there." It is a reference to Donald Trump's repeated statements that Kyiv held no cards in its talks with Moscow and Washington – and that it should make concessions in order to reach a deal to end the war with Russia. Trump has led efforts to mediate a peace deal, but his proposals to do so have been seen as favouring Russia. One of the biggest obstacles to the peace negotiations has been the demand for Kyiv to give up to Russia areas it does not currently control in the Donbas - an industrial area composed of the administrative regions of Donetsk and Luhansk. Russia currently controls more than 80% of those areas - which Ukraine refuses to give up. Since coming to power more than a year ago, Trump has also cut US aid to Ukraine, criticising his predecessor for wasting US taxpayers' money. Instead, much-need US hardware, including Patriot missiles, are now being bought by Ukraine's European allies before being handed over to Kyiv. Their supply, however, has been slow and insufficient. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian forces have struck one of Russia's "most important military factories", President Volodymyr Zelensky has said. "The plant produced electronics and components for Russian missiles. The very missiles that strike our cities, our villages and civilians," he said. British Storm Shadow missiles were used to hit Kremniy El plant in the border region of Bryansk, Ukraine's military said. Russian local authorities say at least six civilians were killed and 42 injured in the "terrorist missile attack". President Vladimir Putin's spokesman said it was "obvious that the launch of these missiles was impossible without British specialists". "In order to prevent such barbaric actions by the Kyiv regime from continuing, the special military operation is being conducted," Dmitry Peskov said, using the Russian description for the full-scale invasion of Ukraine that Putin ordered on 24 February 2022. Peskov said one of the goals of the Russian operation was to demilitarise Ukraine. Putin himself has often stated that demilitarisation is a central objective of the war. But it is due to the Russian invasion that Ukraine has been receiving Western support - including sophisticated weapons aimed at defending its territories. Russia, for its part, has also been receiving help from its allies, including Shahed drones supplied by Iran and soldiers sent by North Korea. One of those drones was used in an attack which killed two people and injured another five in the second-largest city of Kharkiv on Wednesday, Ukrainian officials said. Another Russian attack a day earlier in Slovyansk, in eastern Ukraine, killed four and injured 16. Both sides have continued attacks, even though the war has reached a stalemate recently. Russia has been making slow advances in the battlefield, but Ukraine also says it is reclaiming more land seized by the Russians. Zelensky says another round of talks - involving Russian and American negotiators - may be held next week. The process is being led by US President Donald Trump, who has been trying to end the war. The outcome of the talks hinges on part of his proposals that envisages Ukraine giving up to Russia areas it does not currently control in the Donbas - an industrial area composed of the administrative regions of Donetsk and Luhansk. Russia currently controls more than 80% of those areas - which Ukraine says it cannot agree to relinquish. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The deportation and forcible transfer of Ukrainian children to Russia constitutes a crime against humanity and a war crime, the UN has said. A new report by the Independent International Commission of Inquiry on Ukraine says Russian authorities "at the highest level" have deported "thousands" of children from the occupied areas of Ukraine. Vladimir Putin's "direct involvement" has been "visibile form the outset," it adds. Ukraine says almost 20,000 children have been illegally sent to Russia and Belarus. The UN Commission has so far identified 1,205 cases of children who were taken from Ukrainian territories by Moscow in 2022. Eighty percent of these children have not yet been returned, the report says, and many parents and guardians are to this day unaware of the whereabouts of the minors. This amounts to enforced disappearance and unjustifiable delay in repatriation, which are crimes against humanity and war crimes respectively, according to the UN. The majority of the children mentioned in the UN report lived in the so-called Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics - Ukrainian regions which Moscow illegally claims control over. The report says that just before it launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Moscow evacuated these children to the Russian Federation, claiming they were at risk of an imminent attack by Ukraine. Then, the children were placed in families or institutions and given Russian citizenship. Moscow has always dismissed accusations of forcibly removing children from Ukrainian territory. Vladimir Putin once said that "the story of the 'child abductions'... [was] exaggerated" and insisted that the children in question had been "rescued" from a war zone. At the time, he also insisted there was "no problem" returning the children to their homeland. But Kyiv has always argued that was not the case and the UN report says that children have faced huge difficulties travelling back to Ukraine. This forced removal and severed ties with their homeland, combined with a "coercive environment" in Russia, "has been a source of deep distress for the children", according to the UN. The children who manage to return suffer from "trauma, anxiety and fear of abandonment", the report says, often due to harsh treatment in Russia. One child was told by staff in a Russian orphanage that his country, Ukraine, "does not exist anymore, everything has burnt down, and your parents have probably died". "I am still looking for my daughter, and I am terribly afraid of what she might think of me and how she survives [in Russia], where many people hate Ukrainians," the report quotes a mother who has been unable to track down her child as saying. In 2023 the International Criminal Court (ICC) issued an arrest warrant for Putin, accusing him and his commissioner for children's rights Maria Lvova-Belova of the unlawful deportation of Ukrainian children. Lvova-Belova gave an interview in which she described "taking in" a 15-year-old boy from the Ukrainian city of Mariupol, which Russia currently occupies, and "re-educating" him despite the fact he "did not want to go" to Russia. Ukraine says it has so far recovered 2,000 children. US First Lady Melania Trump has reportedly been involved in facilitating the reunification of children. Last year, she said she had an "open channel of communication" with Putin after he responded to her letter of concern about the child victims of the Russia-Ukraine war. The war in Ukraine continues unabated despite several rounds of talks involving Moscow and Kyiv's negotiating teams and, most recently, an American delegation. The conflict - now in its fifth year - has killed more than 15,000 civilians, injured more than 41,300, and displaced 3.7 million. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A migrant woman who has made Northern Ireland her home, has said she can "feel afraid to go out" because of fear of hate and racism. Domingas Gusmão was speaking to the first minister as part of an innovative new project where 100 migrant women have shared their stories. The East Timorese woman told Michelle O'Neill: "Even if it [hate attacks] happens somewhere else, I can feel afraid to go out. I have younger kids, and it concerns me, but I am lucky, and my neighbourhood is amazing." The project features people from a diverse range of backgrounds including East Timor, Ukraine, Poland and Syria. The Heritage Journeys: Voices of Migrant Women in Mid Ulster project combines photographic portraits, video interviews and cultural material which will be archived at the Linen Hall Library in Belfast. The women involved have been living in Mid Ulster between 2000 and 2024. The project is run by First Steps Women Centre (FSWC) based in Dungannon. The project's website was officially launched in the lead up to International Women's Day and contains a collection of all the women's portraits and stories. Gusmão has been living in Dungannon for 15 years after moving to join her husband who was working in the local food industry. She said: "It was hard when I first came here because I didn't have any English, but with the support of First Steps I learnt the language and as a result got to learn about so many different women who use the centre and their backgrounds. "Dungannon has become my second home from home and all three of my children were born here, so to them it has always been home." She added: "I think sometimes migrant people can be seen as something else, but we have so much in common, the truth is many of us just want a better life and a better future for our families." The project also includes an interview between Gusmão and O'Neill. During the interview, the two women connected over motherhood and family, but also tackled the issue of racism. In closing the interview, O'Neill told Domingas: "I can say to you, as your first minister, I want to build a society and a home for everybody that's inclusive, where everybody is welcome, and where we celebrate our difference and our diversity, and that we all recognise we are stronger for it." Ewelina Dus moved from Poland to County Tyrone 20 years ago. "I'll not pretend like everything was easy from the start, but I've always liked the sense of community here. "Even when I first arrived, I remember walking down the street and people you didn't know would stop to say hello and ask how you are, and I fell in love with that." She added: "The heritage journeys project has been amazing to be part of; I've loved hearing all these amazing women's stories alongside my own. "To hear how and why they came here and bond over that has been really powerful." Dungannon is one of Northern Ireland's most diverse towns, with more than 3,500 people living in the area who were born outside of the UK or Ireland Earlier this month police released new figures showing the largest number of race hate crimes on record across Northern Ireland. The figures for Mid Ulster show that the number of race hate crimes fell by 10 in the last year, with 44 in 2024 and 34 in 2025. But in the last few weeks there have been a number of high-profile incidents across Northern Ireland including racist graffiti dobbed on a Belfast apartment building and a letter containing sectarian and Islamophobic messaging being shared on social media. Gillian Glass is the coordinator of the Heritage Journeys project. She said projects like this are important because they go beyond the headlines and get to the people behind the statistics. She said: "I think it's vital that the wider community hears the stories of these women so people can understand they are like anybody else. "The project shows there is a common humanity, and you get a real sense of their hopes and dreams, and it's a chance to celebrate their culture and traditions." She added: "Some of these women have left quite sad circumstances beyond their control, but others have also chosen to make Tyrone their home, many are economic migrants they are working hard here and we should celebrate that." Domingas also gifted the first minister a hand-crocheted red-and-green table centrepiece and a crocheted gift for Deputy First Minister Emma Little Pengelly. Michael McGoldrick is CEO of First Steps Women's Centre. He said:  "As a woman who has grown up in Mid Ulster, and who is now first minister for Northern Ireland, we couldn't think of anyone better to conduct the first interview released as part of this landmark legacy project and to encourage other women to take part. "This project reflects First Step's Women's Centre's unique position within an increasingly diverse community, and we're proud to be making space for the fascinating and diverse stories of so many women from around the world who now call Mid Ulster home." The project received money from The National Lottery Heritage Fund. A wreath was laid by the Irish President Catherine Connolly at the General Post Office (GPO) in the Irish capital and in Belfast thousands of people turned out for a parade in the west of the city. The disorder, which happened before the Irish Cup semi-final at Windsor Park, saw fireworks, flares and bottles thrown. A yellow weather warning for wind came into force at 14:00 BST on Saturday and ended at 03:00 BST on Sunday. The new rules will be introduced in October and are described as the most significant reform of driver licensing for 70 years. Mariah Idrissi appears in a film for Muslim Women's Network encouraging women to report anti-Muslim abuse. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least ten people including children have been killed and several others injured after a Russian airstrike hit an apartment block in Kharkiv, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has said. Regional governor Oleg Synegubov said the missile damaged a five-storey residential building on Saturday morning. He added that rescue workers are clearing up debris. The latest overnight attacks triggered air alerts across Ukraine - including in Dnipropetrovsk and in Zaporizhzhia. Russia's defence ministry confirmed it used drones to carry out strikes on Ukrainian targets - adding its forces struck Ukrainian military compounds, airfields and energy facilities, the Interfax news agency said. Separately, the Polish air force said it had scrambled military jets to protect its airspace in regions bordering Ukraine, as it usually does in the event of large scale Russian strikes. Detailing the aftermath of the strikes, Synegubov said that in Kharkiv, a 65-year-old woman, a 40-year-old man, and a 13-year-old girl were among those killed. The bodies of four more people were found, including a nine-year-old boy, he later said on Telegram. Synegubov said seven apartment buildings were damaged as were power grids and an administrative building in the city. Zelensky said at least ten more people - including children - have been injured. "There may still be people under the rubble," Zelensky said. "All necessary services are working at the scene to rescue them." Zelensky added that overnight Russia used 29 missiles and 480 drones which he said "targeted energy facilities" in Kyiv, Khmelnytskyi and Chernivtsi regions, and the railway in Zhytomyr region. "There must be a response from partners to these brutal attacks on life," Zelensky said. Elsewhere, Oleksandr Ganzha, head of the Dnipropetrovsk Regional Military Administration, said one person had been killed and another wounded in a Russian attack overnight in the Nikopol district. Ganzha said on Telegram that the Russian army targeted the area around 20 times using drones, artillery, and rockets. A separate strike wounded a baby in Zaporizhzhia, while in Chuguiv in the Kharkiv region, Mayor Halyna Minayeva said two people were injured in a drone attack on a house in the city's centre. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Since the start of Russia's full-scale invasion, the war in Ukraine has developed into a high-tech conflict. Swarms of spy and killer drones have set the skies of Ukraine abuzz, and uncrewed boats have crippled the Russian navy in the Black Sea. Now, Ukraine has embarked on a massive programme to deploy armed robots on the ground. Uncrewed ground vehicles (UGVs), or ground robot systems as they are known in Ukrainian military parlance, have already proven their worth. There have been reports of UGVs successfully repelling Russian attacks and even taking enemy soldiers prisoner. Ukrainian and Russian killer robots are even said to have clashed without humans being present at the site of the battle. "Robot wars are already happening," says Oleksandr Afanasiev from the Ukrainian army's K-2 brigade. He commands its UGV battalion - the world's first, he says. One way in which the brigade has been using these robots is by mounting Kalashnikov machine guns on top. "They open fire on a battlefield where an infantryman would be afraid to turn up. But a UGV is happy to risk its existence," Maj Afanasiev says. His battalion has also been using explosive-laden, battery-powered kamikaze UGVs to blow up enemy positions and hideouts. Unlike aerial drones that buzz overhead, they make no sound to warn the enemy of an impending strike. The deputy commander of the 33rd Detached Mechanised Brigade's tank battalion, who goes by the callsign Afghan, claims that one Ukrainian UGV armed with a machine gun ambushed a Russian personnel carrier, while a robot defended a Ukrainian position for weeks. Afghan admits there are limits to the killer robots' autonomy on the battlefield, and says many of them are self-imposed, because of ethics and international humanitarian law. "Modern UGVs are part-autonomous. They can move on their own, they can observe and detect the enemy. But still, the decision to open fire is made by a human, their operator," Afghan says. "Robots can misidentify the wrong person or attack a civilian. That's why the final decision must be made by an operator." Which means that in most cases on the battlefield armed UGVs are remote-controlled by operators over the internet from a safe distance. Ukraine's lethal UGVs can be armed with grenade launchers as well as machine guns, and can also be deployed to plant landmines or barbed wire. But the vast majority of its uncrewed vehicles are still used for their original purpose of delivering supplies and evacuating the wounded. The role of armed UGVs will soon grow exponentially, according to Valerii Zaluzhnyi, Ukraine's former commander-in-chief and now ambassador to the UK. Speaking at the London think-tank Chatham House about the future of warfare, he described how strike UGVs would be used not just on their own, but as part of large, AI-powered swarms of drones. "In the near future we'll see dozens and even hundreds of smarter and cheaper drones attack from various directions and heights, from the air, ground and sea at the same time," he said. Necessity is a key factor driving innovation in this field. Drones in the air have made it infinitely more dangerous for humans to be present on the battleground, expanding Ukraine's so-called "kill zone" to 20-25km (12-15 miles) from the line of contact. Infantry is not replaceable but "it needs to be supported by UGVs", says Maj Afanasiev: "Ukraine can afford to lose robots, but it simply cannot afford to lose battle-ready soldiers." The Ukrainian army has been facing severe manpower shortages, and recruiting new soldiers behind fallen ones is proving increasingly more difficult. Russia has also been developing combat UGVs, such as the Kuryer. According to Russian media reports, it can be equipped with a flame-thrower, a heavy machine gun normally found on tanks, and it can run autonomously for five hours. The Russian army has also been using Lyagushka ("Frog") kamikaze vehicles to blow up Ukrainian positions. Clashes between Russian and Ukrainian killer robots on the battlefields of Ukraine are a matter of time given their increasing numbers and capabilities, says Yuriy Poritsky, CEO of Ukrainian UGV manufacturer Devdroid which produced hundreds of "strike droids" for the military last year. "Sooner or later, we'll end up in a situation where our strike UGV will come up against their strike UGV on the battlefield. Robot wars may sound like science fiction, but there's nothing sci-fi about the battlefield. It's our reality," he says. His company is now working on a system that would enable its ground drones to return should communications with the operator be lost. Further ahead in the future, it wants its machines to be programmed to travel autonomously to a location, carry out its task - such as watching out for advancing enemy soldiers and engaging them if necessary - and then return to base after a certain time. Another Ukrainian manufacturer of UGVs, Tencore, produced more than 2,000 UGVs for the Ukrainian army in 2025. Its director, Maksym Vasylchenko, expects demand to jump to around 40,000 units in 2026, at least 10-15% of them armed with weapons. "Strike drones [UGVs] will become indispensable, there's no question about it," he says. Further ahead, Vasylchenko believes robots will engage in combat in human form: "It won't be science fiction anymore." A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine has secured the release of seven Ukrainian bank workers arrested on Thursday in Hungary while transporting $80m (£60m) worth of cash and 9kg of gold in cash-transport vehicles to Ukraine. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andriy Sybiha said on X on Friday evening that the workers were safe and across the Ukrainian border. After Sybiha accused Budapest of taking the group hostage and stealing money, Hungary's tax authority said they had been detained on suspicion of money laundering. Ukraine's state savings bank, Oschadbank, said they had been part of a regular transport between Austria and Ukraine and were "unjustifiably detained". The tax authority had said it would expel the workers. The authority had said it was conducting criminal proceedings and added that the transport was being overseen by a former general of Ukraine's intelligence service. "This year alone, more than $900m, €420m and 146 kg of gold bars were transported through the territory of Hungary to Ukraine," the national tax and customs administration said in a statement on Friday. It is not yet clear what has happened to the enormous sums of cash and the gold seized on Thursday, but Polish Foreign Minister Radek Sikorski said "they've stolen the money". Relations between Ukraine and Hungary have deteriorated during Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine and have descended into a war of words over a halt to Russian oil supplies through the Druzhba pipeline in Ukraine. The arrest of the bank workers comes deep in Hungary's election campaign, with Prime Minister Viktor Orbán trailing in opinion polls with little more than a month before the vote. Hungarian reports described how black-clad officials from Hungary's TEK counter-terrorism centre raided the Ukrainian-registered vehicles on Thursday and then their convoy headed to Budapest. Sybiha accused Orbán of dragging Ukraine into its "domestic politics and electoral campaign", adding that Kyiv would not tolerate "this state banditism". His opposite number in Budapest, Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó, asked why such enormous sums were being moved in cash: "If this is truly a transaction between banks, why was it not carried out by transfer?" Orbán made no mention of the seven bank workers in his regular radio appearance on Friday, although he did say "transit shipments" important to Ukraine would be halted until a row over Russian oil supplies was sorted out. Orbán, seen as Russia's closest ally in the EU, has accused Ukraine of deliberately halting Russian oil through the pipeline. Kyiv says the pipeline was damaged in a Russian air strike in January, but Orban says satellite images indicate there is no reason why the pipeline should not be working and has threatened to "force the Ukrainians to restart deliveries". The Hungarian leader has also blocked a €90bn (£78bn) EU aid package seen as vital for Ukraine's financing in a bid to force the resumption of oil supplies. Orbán has repeatedly opposed EU funding for Ukraine, arguing it prolongs the war. He has focused much of his election campaign on an anti-Ukraine message. Last month he ordered increased security for Hungary's energy infrastructure, making unsubstantiated claims that Kyiv was preparing "further actions to disrupt" the energy system. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has criticised Orbán for blocking the aid package and said on Thursday that the Druzhba pipeline might only become operational again in another four to six weeks. "To be honest, I would not restore it. This is my position. I expressed it to European leaders... because this is Russian oil," he told a briefing. "Russians are killing Ukrainians and we have to give oil to Orbán, because he, the poor thing, cannot win the election without this oil." The Ukrainian leader also warned that if Hungary's prime minister continued to block EU funding for Ukraine, then Ukrainian armed forces would be given his address to "call him and communicate with him in their own language". Zelensky's apparent threat was condemned by Peter Magyar, whose opposition Tisza party is leading in the opinion polls ahead of the 12 April election. The European Commission also criticised Zelensky's remarks. "That type of language is not acceptable; there must not be threats against EU member states," spokesman Olof Gill told reporters. Gill said the Commission was in active discussions with all sides with the aim of getting "everyone to calm down a bit, dial down the rhetoric, and deliver on... [putting] pressure on Russia to end its war of aggression". Orbán has said Budapest will use "political and financial tools" to force Ukraine to reopen the pipeline carrying Russian oil to Hungarian refineries. Druzhba is the main route for delivering Russian oil to Hungary and Slovakia, and shipments of Russian oil to both countries have been cut off since 27 January. In a separate development this week, Hungary's foreign minister travelled to Moscow and secured the release of two ethnic Hungarian prisoners of war. Hungary says the men, who are from Ukraine's Transcarpathia region, have dual Hungarian and Ukrainian citizenship and has accused Kyiv of conscripting them into the army. Kyiv has described their transfer to Hungary as a "gross violation of international humanitarian law". A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US has asked Ukraine for help defending Gulf allies against Iranian drones, according to President Volodymyr Zelensky. He said Ukraine's partners had been reaching out and there had been "requests from the American side". Zelensky said he had given instructions "to provide the necessary means and ensure the presence of Ukrainian specialists who can guarantee the necessary security". Asked about the Ukrainian offer, US President Donald Trump said: "I'll take any assistance from any country." Earlier Zelensky had made clear Ukraine would help on condition that its own defence was not weakened and that there were diplomatic gains for Kyiv. He suggested, in particular, that Ukraine would be willing to swap its interceptor drones for more US Patriot air defences to protect against Russian ballistic missiles. The war in the Middle East has raised fears Ukraine could suffer if its allies are distracted by the conflict. There have also been concerns about a potential shortage of interceptor missiles and Russia benefiting from rising oil prices, the proceeds from which are a key source of funding for its war effort. Zelensky has acknowledged these risks but also seems keen to take advantage of the crisis to further Ukraine's national interest. He has spoken to counterparts across the Gulf - in the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Bahrain, Jordan and Kuwait - and is promising what he calls "concrete steps" to help them defend their military bases and civilian infrastructure from Iranian attack. "It is clear what their main request to Ukraine is," Zelensky said on social media. "Anyone who has faced Iranian strikes encounters a serious challenge - Shaheds, which are difficult to intercept without the proper expertise and adequate weapons." He added: "It is in our common interest to help people defend themselves and to restore stability in critically important supply routes. "Partners are reaching out to Ukraine for assistance in defending against Shaheds - for expertise and practical support. There have also been requests from the American side." Ukraine has for years been subject to strikes by Russian-made Shahed drones - one-way unmanned aircraft based on an Iranian design. The irony of the US asking for help has not been lost on Ukrainians who have suffered from US President Donald Trump's erratic policy towards their defence against Russia's full-scale invasion. The US has ceased direct military support under his administration but continues to provide vital intelligence that helps Ukraine both defend against drones and missiles, and strike targets deep within Russia. Now, after years of Ukraine asking for help, the tables have been turned and it seems clear Zelensky wants to use this moment as a diplomatic, military and financial opportunity. Ukraine may hope for US gratitude if it can help American allies in the Gulf, especially Saudi Arabia. It may also hope to win favour among Arab nations, some of which have traditionally had close links with Russia and have tried to avoid taking sides in the Ukraine conflict. Delegations from the Gulf have already arrived in Kyiv for discussions. One source said some had been told to stay in Ukraine's capital until they agreed a deal. The UK is said to be looking for ways of helping Qatar. Zelensky may also hope that, by giving Gulf partners adequate air defences, he will discourage them from using expensive and scarce Patriot missiles to bring down cheap drones. Ukraine faces a shortage of Patriot air defences, and Kyiv will not want too many diverted and wasted in the Middle East. Zelensky told journalists on Thursday that about 800 Patriot PAC-3 missiles had been used already in recent days – more than Ukraine has received during the entire war. He suggested a swap: "We would like to quietly work with countries – both those we can name and those we cannot – to obtain for ourselves some of the deficit missiles for Patriot systems and transfer the appropriate number of [drone] interceptors." But any help Ukraine gives will be qualified. Zelensky said in his social media post: "Of course, any assistance we provide will only be on the condition that it does not weaken our own defence in Ukraine and that it serves as an investment in our diplomatic capabilities". Ihor Fedirko, head of the Ukrainian Council of Defence Industry, told the BBC that Ukraine could scale up interceptor-drone production to up to 10,000 a month. But any discussion of deliveries to partners abroad, however, would require political approval at the highest level in Ukraine, he said. And even if Ukraine's top political leadership approved such transfers in the future, Fedirko warned that it would be much harder to provide allies with the training and expertise they need to learn how to use air defences effectively. "The weapons are just plastic and metal, without teaching and training," he said. "We can send you these goods. But what will you do with them? How will you apply the weaponry? Who will teach you? "At the moment, our training centres in Ukraine are totally booked by our armed forces as well as our civilians." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Russian liquefied natural gas (LNG) tanker has sunk in the Mediterranean between Libya and Malta after it was hit by explosions and a fire, Libyan port officials have said. Russia accused Ukraine of targeting the Arctic Metagaz with "uncrewed sea drones" launched from the Libyan coast. Ukraine's SBU state security service has not commented on the allegation and the Libyan port authority said the cause of the fire was unclear. The Libyans said the tanker was carrying about 62,000 tonnes of LNG before the blasts and that it sank about 130 nautical miles (240km) north of the Libyan port of Sirte. Malta's transport authority later clarified that the tanker had not sunk but was drifting in the Mediterranean and "not under command". Russia's transport ministry said 30 Russians were aboard the Arctic Metagaz. Maltese Home Affairs Minister Byron Camilleri said they were all found "safe and sound in a lifeboat" during a rescue operation by Malta's armed forces. Unverified night-time footage has emerged purportedly showing the ship ablaze after the attack, which occurred on Tuesday. Serhii Sternenko, a popular blogger and adviser to Ukraine's defence minister, posted pictures on Wednesday morning of what he said was the tanker in the Mediterranean, which had a "serious hole in the engine room compartment and is beyond repair". He did not elaborate where the pictures came from and they have not been independently verified. "This is a terrorist attack," Russia's Vladimir Putin told state TV. "This isn't the first time we've encountered something like this." Russia's transport ministry called it "an act of international terrorism and maritime piracy", singling out the European Union for complicity. Moscow said the Arctic Metagaz - which had been en route from Russia's northern port of Murmansk - was carrying cargo cleared in accordance with international rules. The tanker was apparently heading for Port Said in Egypt and is considered part of Russia's so-called shadow fleet. It has been widely sanctioned by Western countries. The ministry provided no evidence to back up its claim that the tanker was attacked by Ukrainian sea drones, though there were earlier unconfirmed reports of attacks from the Libyan coast. The SBU told BBC Ukraine it was not commenting on "the situation with the tanker in the Mediterranean", although a Ukrainian government-linked social media account, United24, teased that the drones were "Definitely. Maybe" not part of the Ukrainian fleet. Marine tracking data indicated that the day before the fire, the tanker had last reported that it was sailing off the south-east coast of Malta. It had sailed some considerable distance by the time the fire was reported and it is assumed the crew deactivated its automatic identification system. Russia has deployed a surging number of vessels to transport oil and gas in an attempt to avoid international sanctions, which are aimed at slashing revenues that have been critical for funding Moscow's war in Ukraine. Its shadow fleet is largely made up of aged tankers, many with obscure ownership or insurance. Following Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, which began in 2022, Kyiv has carried out a number of attacks on such vessels using naval drones. However, nearly all of such strikes have been in the Black Sea, which Russia and Ukraine both border. Update 17 March: Libya's port authority said initially that the ship had sunk but Malta's transport authority clarified on 11 March that it was drifting and we updated our article accordingly. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An event has been held to mark the fourth anniversary of the war in Ukraine and thank the people of Cornwall for helping people who have fled the conflict. The In Line of Light for Ukraine event in Truro at the weekend was funded by Cornwall Council's Resettlement Service. Cornwall Council said more than 670 Cornish households had opened their doors through the Homes for Ukraine scheme, providing safety for more than 1,270 people forced to flee the war. Irina Chernenko, an organiser of the event, said the event was to say thank you to the Cornish community and share the Ukrainian culture with the community. Chernenko said: "We want to have a line of light for Ukraine and share our history, our culture and our food with the Cornish community to highlight the topics for Ukraine, to say thank you to the Cornish community which opened doors for Ukrainian families." Nataliia Kuzmenko lost her brother two years ago in the war and attended the event in Truro. She said: "It's not our war. We didn't choose it. We are just trying to survive. We are just trying to protect our children and our country. "Those men and women, everyone who is fighting and who didn't survive in the war, they are fighting for independence. I'm here today because they can't be here. They can't speak for themselves." Follow BBC Cornwall on X, Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk. Police chief James Vaughan says he is committed to restoring frontline officer numbers. Cornwall's Chamber of Commerce president says the route generated most of the airport's revenue. Skye Owen was hospitalised for four weeks in September 2024 after getting sepsis. Organisers say entries capture memorable moments along the South West Coast Path. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An MP has led a first of its kind visit to provide physiotherapist training in Ukraine. Sonia Kumar won the Dudley seat for Labour at the 2024 general election, but is also a practising NHS physiotherapist. She organised the trip after a visit in September in which she said she was moved by the resilience and bravery of injured Ukrainian soldiers. Last month President Zelensky said 55,000 Ukrainian soldiers have been killed on the battlefield with many more injured, but according to other sources the number could be has high as 200,000. After a long journey on a "rickety train", Kumar said she had helped to deliver training to 25 clinicians to deal with injuries sustained during the conflict. She said she had been looking for back injuries, neurological deficits, shoulder injuries, ankle sprains and other injuries you might see in the UK. But she explained that the situation was very different for people who were serving on the front line. "If you have an ankle injury and that balloons up, how do you manage that quickly and get someone back to fighting?" she asked. She added that some of the patients she had spoken to had brain injuries or limb amputations, but told her: "I would do it again." Kumar said she was having conversations about what more the UK could do to support health professionals in Ukraine. "Mental support is just as needed, because its entwined, it's hand in hand, but they were saying to me they also want practical support," she added. She said healthcare staff in Ukraine told her that instead of sympathy, they needed skills, partnerships and practical support. Describing the visit as "what international cooperation looks like at its best," she said she hoped it would be the start of a long-term partnership between British and Ukrainian healthcare teams. "Because even in the shadow of war, collaboration like this can help rebuild lives." The training involving Kumar took place at the Institute of Vertebrology and Rehabilitation in Kyiv and was delivered in partnership with the Patients of Ukraine Charitable Foundation. Tanisha Sandhu, one of the UK physiotherapists delivering the programme, said: "The injuries clinicians are dealing with here are incredibly complex. "If we can share techniques that improve recovery or reduce pain - that can make a huge difference to someone's life." Ukraine's Deputy Minister of Health Yevheniy Honchar said: "Rehabilitation is really our key priority because we have huge demand in Ukraine because of the war." Thanking the visiting party, he added: "It's really important to improve the skill and knowledge with well recognised experts from Great Britain." Follow BBC Birmingham on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Coventry faces its most consequential local election in more than two decades. No disciplinary action was taken over the allegations of an inappropriate relationship with Scottish MP Joani Reid. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The plight of children affected by the Russian invasion of Ukraine will be recognised in a community art project in Bradford. Crushed Childhood will include sculptures of destroyed buildings marked with charcoal symbolising the coal mining industry of Ukraine's embattled Donbas region. This week marked four years since the Russian invasion, on 24 February 2022. Ewhen Chymera, who has organised the event for Bradford's Ukrainian Community Centre, said the installation would highlight how the war "continues to impact children every single day". Chymera said: "Thousands and millions of them have been displaced from their homes, others continue to live in areas where bombs, drones, explosions, air raids go on every single day, as well as the abductions and the loss of families and friends. "The key message here is whilst the war may have gone out of the news to an extent or comes and goes, this war continues to impact children every single day, even those that have fled to safer regions, such as our sort of area here in West Yorkshire." Data from the United Nations Human Rights Monitoring Mission reported more than 700 children and 13,000 civilians have died as a result of the conflict. Alongside the art installation, the centre will hold a moment of remembrance later for those who have lost their lives in the war and to thank those serving on the front lines. Bradford's Ukrainian community is one of the biggest in the UK, having been established after World War Two with many working in the city's textile mills after being displaced from their homeland. Chymera said many children in the community, some of whom are fourth-generation Ukrainian, are also feeling the impact of the war. "While they may speak Ukrainian, understand Ukrainian and feel Ukrainian at heart, they have never actually been to their homeland because of the lack of stability or the war," he said. "Inevitably it is a very difficult conversation with a child but they know about the loss, they know about friends and family. "They have also got Ukrainian refugee friends now as well who have that direct link. "That death is a daily occurrence is horrific, but children are very resilient and a lot of these children just see war as a daily thing sadly." Listen to highlights from West Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, catch up with the latest episode of Look North. All households in Bradford will receive external food waste bins and kitchen caddies this autumn. From 'Vikings' in love to new butterfly habitats, the stories to bring a smile to your face. The church art by a Jewish refugee was partly painted over by "a well-meaning priest" in the 1980s. David Ben Eke is encouraging children aged five to 17 to submit stories for the anthology. Margot Lord, from Haslemere, will be able to choose an art piece worth £2,500 as part of her win. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least 55 Ghanaians have been killed fighting in the war in Ukraine, with two others currently held as prisoners of war, Ghana's foreign affairs minister says. On a trip to Kyiv, Samuel Okudzeto Ablakwa said that about 272 Ghanaians are believed to have been lured into the conflict since 2022, citing Ukrainian authorities. Ablakwa described the figures as "depressing and frightening," saying Ghana "cannot turn a blind eye to these heartbreaking statistics". He did not say whose side the Ghanaians had been fighting on but Ukraine's foreign minister said on Wednesday that more than 1,700 people from 36 countries in Africa had been recruited to fight for Russia. The 55 Ghanaians is the highest number of casualties from a single African country to have been officially confirmed in the Ukraine-Russia war. Local media in Cameroon have reported that 94 of its nationals have died in the conflict, but the authorities have not commented on these figures. Two South Africans and at least one Kenyan have died in the conflict. Ablakawa said the casualty figures were "not just numbers, they represent human lives, the hope of many Ghanaian families and our nation". He said the Ghanaian government was committed to "tracking and dismantling all dark web illegal recruitment schemes" as well as launching intensive public awareness campaigns to prevent the country's youth from being drawn into the conflict. "This is not our war and we cannot allow our youth to become human shields for others," he added. On Thursday, a Kenyan national was charged over accusations he had lured young men to Russia with job opportunities, only for them to end up fighting in Ukraine. Festus Arasa Omwamba denied the charges. A total of 1,000 Kenyans have been recruited to fight for Russia in its four-year war against Ukraine, said a report from Kenya's National Intelligence Service (NIS), released last week. Russia's embassy in Kenya has denied accusations that it was involved in recruiting people to fight in the war. However, it said that Russian law allowed foreign nationals who are legally in the country to voluntarily enlist in the armed forces. On Wednesday, Ghana's foreign minister urged President Volodymyr Zelensky to release two Ghanaian prisoners of war captured fighting for Russia. "They are victims of manipulation, of disinformation, misinformation, of criminal trafficking networks," he said. He thanked Ukraine for ensuring international law was respected in the handling of the detainees. "We have received reports that they are in good health," he said. "They have not been tortured. They have not suffered any inhumane treatment since they were captured." The family of one of the men said they were hopeful he would be freed soon. According to the AFP news agency, 35-year-old Joshua Nkrumah left his pregnant wife in Dubai in July 2024 and travelled to Russia, believing he had secured a private security job. He was captured by Ukrainian forces in September 2024 after surviving a drone strike. Nkrumah remains in detention, and his family has had no contact with him since. Joshua's father, Albert, told AFP that he sometimes wondered if his son was dead or alive. "As a father, I live every day with a silent weight on my chest. I wake up and the first thing I think about is my son - whether he has eaten, whether he is safe, whether he still has hope," he added. "I just want my son alive and back home. That is all a father asks." Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andriy Sybiga said both sides discussed "frankly" about the possibility of returning the prisoners to Ghana. South Africa on Thursday said that two of its citizens had been killed in Ukraine, while another 15 had been repatriated over the past week. Two more remain in Russia getting treatment for "very severe" injuries, said Foreign Minister Ronald Lamola. Ukrainian officials have repeatedly warned that anyone fighting for Russia would be treated as an enemy combatant, and that the only safe route out was to surrender and be treated as a prisoner of war. Ukraine has also previously come in for criticism for trying to recruit foreign nationals, including Africans, to fight on its side. Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Cameroon's President Paul Biya, 93, won his eighth successive term last year in a disputed election. The fuel cost is nearly double what the government budgeted for putting pressure on stretched finances. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. People evicted to build Nigeria's capital accuse the government of failing to fulfill its promises to them. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Police in Kenya have charged a man accused of luring young men to Russia with job opportunities, only for them to end up fighting in Ukraine. Festus Arasa Omwamba, head of recruitment agency Global Faces Human Resources, recruited 22 Kenyans "for the purpose of exploitation by means of deception", state prosecutors said on Thursday. The victims were rescued last September from an apartment complex in Athi River, a town near the capital, Nairobi, before they could travel to Russia. However, three others had already left Kenya, finding themselves on the front line of the war and returning home with injuries, the prosecutors added. Omwamba, aged 33, pleaded not guilty to the charges against him. A total of 1,000 Kenyans have been recruited to fight for Russia in its four-year war against Ukraine, a report from Kenya's National Intelligence Service (NIS), released last week, said. Presenting the report to MPs, parliament majority leader Kimani Ichung'wah, described a "deeply disturbing" network of rogue state officials allegedly colluding with human trafficking syndicates to recruit and transport Kenyans. Omwamba was arrested earlier this month in a town near the Ethiopian border after surrendering to police. Victims rescued from the Athi Rivers complex last September revealed they had signed contracts with an unnamed overseas employment agency, committing to pay up to $18,000 (£13,000) for visas, travel, accommodation, and other logistics, the police said. The National Intelligence Service said that upon arrival in Russia, many Kenyans reportedly find themselves deployed to front-line combat roles after minimal military training. Earlier this month, the government of the East African country said it would urge Russia to ban the recruitment of Kenyans to fight in Ukraine. The Russian embassy in Nairobi has denied encouraging Kenyans to fight in Ukraine, or issuing visas "to Kenyan citizens who sought to travel to Russia with the stated pose of participating in the Special Military Operation (SMO) in Ukraine". The embassy added that while it does not recruit foreigners, Russian law allows foreign nationals who are legally in Russia to voluntarily enlist in their armed forces. Ukraine's foreign minister said on Wednesday that more than 1,700 people from 36 countries in Africa had been recruited to fight for Russia. South Africa on Thursday said that two of its citizens had been killed in Ukraine, while another 15 had been repatriated over the past week. Two more remain in Russia getting treatment for "very severe" injuries, said Foreign Minister Ronald Lamola. Ukrainian officials have repeatedly warned that anyone fighting for Russia will be treated as an enemy combatant, and that the only safe route out is to surrender and be treated as a prisoner of war. However, Ukraine itself has previously come in for criticism for trying to recruit foreign nationals, including Africans, to fight on its side. Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Cameroon's President Paul Biya, 93, won his eighth successive term last year in a disputed election. The fuel cost is nearly double what the government budgeted for putting pressure on stretched finances. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. People evicted to build Nigeria's capital accuse the government of failing to fulfill its promises to them. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia says it has handed over the remains of 1,000 soldiers to Ukraine and has received the bodies of 35 Russian soldiers in return. It comes as Ukraine's chief negotiator met US President Donald Trump's envoys in Geneva to discuss economic plans for the reconstruction of Ukraine after the war. Negotiators were also preparing a third round of US-led talks aimed at ending the conflict which has entered its fifth year - a trilateral meeting involving the Russian side, too. Hours before the Geneva talks, Russia launched 420 drones and 39 missiles in six different regions of Ukraine, injuring dozens of people, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky said. Vladimir Medinsky, a top aide of Russian President Vladimir Putin, announced the exchange of bodies in a short announcement on Telegram. He gave no details, but included an image showing bodies being unloaded from a truck. Hours later, Ukraine said it had received 1,000 bodies which, "according to prior information from the Russian side, may belong to Ukrainian defenders". The two sides have exchanged thousands of soldiers' bodies over the course of the conflict that began with Putin's decision to launch a full-scale invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022. The exchange is based on an agreement reached by the two sides during negotiations in Istanbul in June 2025. Moscow and Kyiv agreed to return the bodies of up to 6,000 soldiers each, as well as all sick and heavily wounded prisoners of war and those aged under 25. Kyiv and Moscow regularly publish estimates of the other side's losses, but do not detail their own. Zelensky recently admitted 55,000 Ukrainian soldiers had been killed on the battlefield - a figure Western observers describe as an underestimate as it does not include those missing. And from public sources, the BBC has confirmed the names of almost 186,000 people killed fighting on Russia's side in Ukraine. The true death toll is generally accepted to be much higher, as many deaths on the battlefield are not recorded. So even though estimates suggest more Russians are dying every day, Moscow has returned more bodies to Ukraine overall than it has received. No-one has explained the discrepancy, even though Russia has previously accused Ukraine of not abiding by the Istanbul agreement, and Ukraine has alleged Russian body returns were irregular and sometimes included Russians' remains - a charge Moscow has rejected. One possible explanation is that Russia captures more Ukrainian bodies given its troops have been on the attack most of the time and, therefore, more able to retrieve them from the battlefield. On the eve of the Geneva talks, President Zelensky had a telephone conversation with Trump and said he expected the Geneva meeting would lead to trilateral negotiations at the beginning of March - thus creating "an opportunity to move talks to the leaders' level". "President Trump supports this sequence of steps," Zelensky said, adding: "This is the only way to resolve all the complex and sensitive issues and finally end the war." Putin, for his part, has refused to meet Zelensky, describing him as illegitimate - an argument centring on the fact that no presidential election has been held in Ukraine, despite the expiry of Zelensky's term in March 2024. However, Ukraine's constitution bars holding elections under martial law - imposed in the wake of Putin's invasion of his neighbour. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A factory that will make drones for soldiers in Ukraine has opened in a Suffolk town. Ukrspecsystems has repurposed a building in Mildenhall in order to produce the unmanned aircraft as part of a £200m investment. When fully operational it will be capable of making up to 1,000 drones a month, the company said. Rory Chamberlain, Ukrspecsystems' managing director in the UK, told the BBC that supplying soldiers with modern weaponry was of the "highest importance" because Ukraine was as "vulnerable" as ever to attack. "The war has changed but this keeps soldiers safe and it keeps the nation fighting," he added. "There is your chessboard and another piece has been added - another player has been added to the board that can do different things and that's drones in modern warfare. "It's changed how they have to defend themselves and it's changed how they attack as well." Ukrspecsystems, described as the biggest drone manufacturing company in Ukraine, said it manufactured eight types of drone "that are used extensively in Ukraine" following the full-scale Russian invasion in 2022. According to Chamberlain, the factory will create hundreds of jobs. It is also close to Elmsett Airfield, near Ipswich, which will be used to train drone pilots and test out the machines before they are deployed to soldiers on the frontline. Col Andy Boardman is the commander of Operation Interflex, a military collaboration between British Armed Forces and Ukraine which started in 2022. He has helped train new recruits for the battlefield - the make-up of which, he said, was evolving all the time and becoming more technological than ever. "Not only must we make sure we're delivering up-to-date tactics, but [we must] also integrate some of the new technologies," he told the BBC. "When we started, we were doing basic soldier skills like shooting, moving around, patrolling, and first aid. "We're now integrating unmanned aerial systems in all aspects of our training too." The official opening of the new drone factory was attended by Ukraine's ambassador to the UK, Gen Valerii Zaluzhnyi, and the UK's Minister for Defence Readiness and Industry, Luke Pollard MP. Pollard said the new site solidified a deepening cooperation between the two nations' defence industries and would strengthen Ukraine's ability to fight Russia. "We've been supporting Ukraine with training of military personnel for quite a few years now, but for Ukraine to stay in the fight having more assured and resilient industrial production is essential," he said. "That's what this factory provides, so it is a really important step in the UK-Ukraine partnership, making sure we can keep Ukraine in the fight for longer as we get towards what I hope will be peace." Follow Suffolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. People walked from Mildenhall FC, in Suffolk, to Cambridge United in Cambridge on Thursday. A charity offering a foodbank and furniture reuse service faces one of its "most challenging periods". The next hearing is due to take place at Basildon Crown Court in Essex. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A commemorative service has taken place to mark four years since the Russian invasion of Ukraine. The Holy Sepulchre Church in Northampton was the venue for the Ukrainian community to come together to pray. Solomiia Blagitko, who organised Monday's event and arrived in the UK from Kyiv in May 2022, said it was "unbelievable" that she was still here and the conflict was ongoing. Tetiana Hornik, a teacher who settled in Rushden with her two sons in December 2022, said she had hoped to go home after a few months but "unfortunately I can't". Blagitko said she still had parents and a husband in Ukraine, who she tried to see during the summer and winter holidays. "It's unbelievable - it's four years we've been here. Four years of fighting - nothing changes," she said. "Our hope remains for peace and a chance to return home and help our country to recover." Hornik said: "I can't believe it's been so long. I thought it would be a couple of months and go back home and unfortunately I can't." She said her two sons had settled into the UK quite well as they were six and nine when they arrived. "My younger one is more British as most of his life has been spent here; all his friends and all his memories are now here," she said. "He uses the English language more than Ukrainian as everyone around him speaks English; the only thing that connects him with Ukraine is his dad." She last saw her husband in the summer when they went to the country for a couple of months. "It's not as much as we want - we want to be together." She said the country had changed a lot. "You can see so many boards with soldiers who have died and flags on cemeteries and places that have been destroyed by Russia," she said. "You can see how people are tired from all this." She did not believe the conflict would end soon. "We haven't started this war; the country who started it doesn't want to finish it," she said. Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Its website says it is not taking any bookings on Saturday "due to unforeseen circumstances". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Jamie Tyler, from Rushden, is cast as a swing performer in the latest take on the Dickens classic. Bottles and cans are exchanged for a printed ticket that can be swapped for rewards. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Vladyslava Bondar was at home with her parents in Ukraine when the full-scale invasion by Russia began. After waking up and checking the news, she said she soon heard jets flying over her house, in what she described as "a pretty scary morning." Four years on, the 27-year-old has made Hove, in East Sussex, her second home. Reflecting on her decision to leave Ukraine and her parents behind, Bondar said she initially felt "like a traitor" and that she was betraying her country. She added: "I remember I had a mental breakdown; my dad had to carry me as a baby." But Bondar said she now felt "privileged" to have settled in East Sussex, as one of nearly 26,000 Ukrainian refugees who arrived in the South East under the Homes for Ukraine scheme. "I very quickly found support in Brighton, in Lancing, in Worthing. I relatively quickly found a job and found really good friends among Brightonians," she said. Kateryna Levanets, 38, and her family were hiding in a food cellar when Russian troops arrived in Bashtanka. Footage from her mobile phone captured the muffled sound of gunfire overhead. It was just a week after the war began. Terrified for their safety, Levanets fled Ukraine for Poland with her 12-year-old-son, before arriving in the UK to live with a host family. "I think this country does a lot for us and I'm very grateful. I feel safe here," she said. Four years on, Levanets has found a job as a dance teacher, and lives with her son in Folkestone, Kent. When it comes to returning to Ukraine, she said she was unsure of what the future held. "I am positive, but I don't know when it will finish. I don't think it will be soon," she said. For Bondar, she said there was plenty to keep her busy, as she works as a tour guide and an independent consultant alongside volunteering. But she said she would return to Ukraine. "If the war came to an end today, I would pack my bags and go and celebrate, and hug all the people, and cry for all the people that we've lost," she added. Follow BBC Sussex on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. The marathon will take place on 12 April, with over 20,000 runners expected to take part. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. A "whole bunch of things have gone wrong", says one expert. Drivers on the M20 heading towards the Eurotunnel have been told to allow extra time for their trip. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A canon at Coventry Cathedral has told the city's Ukrainian community "we still care" in a vigil marking the fourth anniversary of the Russian invasion. The Reverend Kate Massey said the suffering the Ukrainian community in Coventry and Warwickshire had experienced meant is was important to hold space for them to tell their stories and show they are not forgotten. At the centre of the vigil, held at Coventry Cathedral on Tuesday, were pieces of damaged body armour painted on by artists involved in ArtArmor, a Ukrainian project set up to turn plates that had saved lives in the conflict, into unique pieces of art. The pieces feature religious icons St Volodymyr The Great and St Valeriy. The decorated armour was presented to NP Aerospace in 2023 in recognition for the firm's work in supplying thousands of items of body armour to Ukraine. Both are held at the firm but loaned to the Ukrainian community for special events. Massey, who is the cathedral's canon for arts and reconciliation, said: "This is Coventry, this is our city's chance to show the Ukrainian community, that we still care, we still see their suffering, that we are still standing in solidarity with them and praying for them." She added: "None of us could have imagined when we first held a vigil a few days after that invasion, that we'd still be here four years later. It has been a difficult service to plan." Peter Luczka, from the Ukrainian community in Coventry, said of the decorated body armour: "What makes them special is that both have been blessed by our priest at St Volodymyr The Great, our parish church in Coventry." Massey said while it is too early in the war to start thinking about reconciliation, she  is inspired by Provost Richard Howard, who gave an address from the ruins of Coventry Cathedral on Christmas Day 1940, just weeks after the city had been devastated by German bombs. "He said we're still in the middle of struggle. We still have to fight for what we believe is right. But what we're ultimately going to build is a kinder world." Follow BBC Coventry & Warwickshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. PD Chip has sniffed out many items over the years including sim cards and trackers. More than 300 handwritten memories have been added to the exhibition so far, organisers say. Scott Duffin puts his Coventry memorabilia trove on public display, after five years of collecting. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Specially trained officers are deployed in Birmingham, Coventry and Wolverhampton. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A mother is gearing up to take part in an all-female convoy delivering vehicles to Ukrainian medics to mark International Women's Day. Karen Watt is making the 1,300-mile (2,100km) journey from her home in Oxfordshire to the Ukrainian border alongside at least 15 other women next month as part of the Driving Ukraine project. The charity, founded by her son Fynn, has transported more than 300 vehicles to the frontline since the Russian invasion began. It comes as campaigners and charities across Oxfordshire mark exactly four years since the conflict started. "Every month we try to do something different and have a different theme, and March is because it's International Women's Day," Karen explained. She said the all-female seven-vehicle convoy would be handing the keys over to female Ukrainian combat medics. Driving Ukraine, based in Deddington, deliver the vehicles to medical corps within the Ukrainian military. "Every vehicle has an impact and makes a difference without a shadow of a doubt," Karen said. She said the initial "fear" she had when her then 21-year-old-son first took a vehicle over to Ukraine had since "changed into full blown pride". "We're actually departing on the 12th of March and that's his 25th birthday, so I can't think of a better gift to give him..." Another campaigner who has also transported aid to Ukraine is Magdalena Kwiecinska, who set up the Banbury-based UK Help for Ukraine group in 2022. Originally from Poland, she said it was "just really impossible" that the war had entered its fifth year. "At the start we were just thinking it would be few months, maybe a year, but now four years - it's just very sad. "We've got lots of lots of different stories, very sad stories from the cities and towns just near to the frontline - mostly from the people from Kharkiv," she said. "Their houses have been destroyed completely to the ground, someone's died, someone's missing and they don't know where the part of the family is." Although UK Help for Ukraine officially closed last year, Magdalena is still helping to provide aid to those in Ukraine. You can follow BBC Oxfordshire on Facebook, X, or Instagram. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. The Crown Estate is a partner in the project, which will use the Debenhams store that shut in 2021. A cavapoo was killed by two other dogs while being walked on a Banbury street on Friday. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. A Banbury firm has been making wigs for the NHS and West End shows for more than 100 years. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Four years since Russia launched its full-scale invasion, people across Ukraine have remembered their dead from a war which shows no sign of ending. As the conflict enters a fifth year, the Ukrainian military continues to resist being overrun by Russian forces, but military losses are mounting on both sides and Ukraine's population faces near-daily aerial attacks. On Tuesday, Volodymyr Zelensky said "Ukraine never chose this war", adding: "We have defended our independence, we have not lost our statehood." The Kremlin, which believed it could capture Kyiv within days, acknowledged its war aims "haven't been fully achieved yet" and said it intended to continue attacking Ukraine. Spokesman Dmitry Peskov repeated a frequent Kremlin accusation that western support for Ukraine had enlarged the conflict, turning it into a "confrontation between Russia and the West". Russia now controls just under 20% of Ukraine but the Ukrainian military has prevented it from capturing the entirety of the eastern Donbas region. A minute's silence at 10:00 brought Kyiv to a halt on a sombre day for the country, though one on which a sense of solidarity was palpable. In the city's Maidan square, where a growing host of flags has commemorated the dead since the launch of Russia's full-scale invasion, banners and heads were lowered as people stood in silent contemplation. Surrounded by the glowing 11th Century mosaics of the Cathedral of St Sophia, in the heart of the capital, Zelensky and his wife Olena led a prayer service. The Ukrainian president was accompanied by some of his most ardent European supporters, including Finland's Alexander Stubb, Sweden's Ulf Kristersson and European Commission President Ursula Von der Leyen. In Bucha, a town west of the capital that in 2022 witnessed some of the worst horrors that have accompanied Russia's invasion, a steady stream of people laid flowers on the black granite headstones of soldiers. "The war has taken a lot of lives," observed a man called Valentyn, who had come to visit the graves of fallen comrades. "Unfortunately for us it's too many," he said. "No-one one thought it would last this long." Across the vast country there are many places like this, where photographs of the fallen stand alongside thousands of Ukraine's blue and yellow flags fluttering in the breeze. The war has touched everyone in Ukraine, in so many different ways, from losses on the battlefield, to the scattering of families, and the search for warmth and light in the midst of Russia's winter bombardments. In Zelensky's lengthy morning video address, the Ukrainian president was seen striding through subterranean corridors of the presidential palace in central Kyiv - underground passages lined with pipes and cables, reminiscent of Winston Churchill's World War Two offices in London. Acknowledging the staggering loss of life Ukraine has endured, Zelensky said: "We have every right to say: we have defended our independence, we have not lost our statehood. Ukraine exists not just on the map." The video offered a rare glimpse of the world where the president and his staff have spent much of their time since February 2022. "This is where I held my first conversations with world leaders at the start of the war," Zelensky said as he walked along echoing underground passages. Back then, many thought Zelensky's days were numbered and that Ukraine would fall. Instead, four years on, Ukraine continues to hold its own against Russian troops across the east of the country, at an ever-increasing cost of manpower and resources for Moscow. A meeting of the so-called Coalition of the Willing was also held on Tuesday, with many leaders dialling in to Kyiv. Led by Britain and France, the coalition currently numbers around 35 countries, some of which say they are willing to deploy troops to Ukraine to ensure any potential ceasefire holds. UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, speaking via video-link, told fellow leaders it was "wrong" to think that Russia holds the upper hand. Over the past year, Starmer said, Russia "took 0.8% of land in Ukraine at a terrible cost to themselves of half a million losses". However, French President Emmanuel Macron acknowledged the glacial pace of peace negotiations, saying he was "very sceptical" about the possibility of achieving "peace in the short term" in Ukraine. "Let's be lucid. There is no willingness on the Russian side to have a peace and, by the way, to have a robust and solid peace as we see it on our side," he said. Speaking at a board meeting of Russia's security service on Tuesday, Putin made no substantial reference to the war but claimed without evidence that the UK and France are plotting to arm Ukraine with a nuclear bomb. Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) earlier released a statement claiming that Paris and London believe there is "no chance of achieving their much-desired victory over Russia" and were therefore helping Ukraine acquire a nuclear weapon or "dirty bomb". A Downing Street spokesperson described the claims as "a clear attempt by Vladimir Putin to distract" and said there is "no truth" to the allegations. Despite several rounds of US-brokered peace talks involving Russian and Ukrainian delegations, a breakthrough still appears far off. Moscow's demand that Ukraine hand over sovereign territory in the east – which thousands of Ukrainians have fought and died to protect – is unacceptable to many. "When it comes to talks, there's one person standing in the way of progress," Sir Keir said. "And that is Putin, and nobody but Putin." A statement by the leaders of G7 countries – including US President Donald Trump - reiterated their unwavering support for Ukraine, its defence of sovereign territory and its right to exist. It was their first joint declaration on Ukraine since Trump's re-election. Zelensky's negotiators have spoken warmly of American efforts to broker a ceasefire and bring about peace in Ukraine. However, over the last year Trump has often appeared to put pressure on Ukraine to agree to an unfavourable deal, and his clear impatience with the lack of progress towards a ceasefire has left many wondering where his instincts and convictions lie. Kyiv believes that Moscow would only heed American security guarantees, and that they are therefore key to any peace agreement. In his video address Zelensky repeated his desire that one day the current occupant of the White House would come to Kyiv. "I know for certain: only by coming to Ukraine and seeing with one's own eyes our life and our struggle," he said, "only then can one understand what this war is really about. And because of whom." Earlier in the day, Zelensky also stressed that Ukraine needed interceptor missiles from the US to be used with American-made Patriot air defence launchers. Russia's aerial attacks in January and February this year appear to have depleted Ukraine's stock of those missiles, leaving cities and energy infrastructure defenceless amid the harshest winter since the start of the invasion. The number of army and civilian casualties continues to grow. On the Russian side, the BBC has now identified the names of over 186,000 Russian soldiers killed in the war. The true death toll is generally accepted to be much higher, as many deaths on the battlefield are not recorded. UK Armed Forces Minister Al Carns said the cost of the war on Russia had been "almost unimaginable". Carns said the UK Ministry of Defence estimated that Russia had suffered 1.25 million casualties overall, adding that was probably an under-estimate - and was higher than all US casualties suffered during World War Two. Last month, Zelensky said that "officially" 55,000 Ukrainians had been killed on the battlefield – but according to other Ukrainian sources, which the BBC has cross-referenced, the number of Ukrainians killed could be as high as 200,000. Many of them are buried in the sprawling military cemeteries now dotted across Ukraine. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
When Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered up to 200,000 soldiers into Ukraine on 24 February 2022, his aim was to sweep into the capital, Kyiv, in days, overthrow its pro-Western government and return Ukraine to Russia's sphere of influence. Putin failed but a fifth of Ukrainian territory is in Russian hands. US President Donald Trump has been pushing for a peace deal. But a meeting with Putin in Alaska in August last year and several rounds of talks with Ukrainian and Russian negotiating teams have failed to yield any meaningful progress. Moscow continues to demand that Ukraine hand over sovereign territory - an unacceptable outcome for Kyiv. Launching the biggest European invasion since the end of World War Two, Putin gave a fiery speech on TV declaring his goal was to "demilitarise and denazify" Ukraine. Russia has repeatedly painted modern Ukraine as a Nazi state, in a crass distortion of history. Putin had already seized Ukraine's Crimean peninsula eight years earlier, after a revolution that ousted Ukraine's pro-Russian president and replaced him with a more pro-Western government. Putin then triggered a lower-level war in Ukraine's eastern Donbas region, with pro-Russian proxy forces occupying territory and setting up rebel states supported by Moscow. But the 2022 invasion was on a different scale. Putin had just recognised the rebel states as independent. Then, as the invasion began, he said the people there - many of whom are Russian speakers - needed protection from the Kyiv "regime". A day later, Putin called on Ukraine's military to "take power into your own hands" and target the "gangs of drug addicts and neo-Nazis" running the government. He then added another objective - to ensure Ukraine stayed neutral. He accused the Western defensive alliance, Nato, of trying to gain a foothold in Ukraine to bring its troops closer to Russia's borders. The Russian leader has long questioned Ukraine's right to exist, claiming that "modern Ukraine was entirely created by Russia" after the communist revolution in 1917. In a long-winded 2021 essay he even suggested "Russians and Ukrainians were one people" dating back to the late 9th Century. In 2024 he told US TV talk show host Tucker Carlson that Ukraine was an "artificial state". Those comments have led many to believe that the goal of the invasion was in effect to erase the state of Ukraine. Russia's state-run Ria news agency explained that "denazification is inevitably also de-Ukrainisation" - seemingly tying the idea of erasing Ukraine to the stated goal of the invasion. Ukrainian culture and identity have in fact existed for centuries independently of Russia. Fact-checking Putin's 'nonsense' history Zelensky - from comedian to wartime leader Putin has long sought to get rid of Ukraine's elected pro-Western president, and Zelensky was apparently a target from the very start of the war. Russian troops are said to have made two attempts to storm the presidential compound soon after the invasion, and Ukraine's elected leader said they wanted him dead. "The enemy has designated me as target number one; my family is target number two. "They want to destroy Ukraine politically by destroying the head of state." Zelensky said later that Putin had initially tried to replace him with the wealthy head of a pro-Russian party, Viktor Medvedchuk, who was accused of treason in Ukraine and is now in Russia. Even now, Putin has not agreed to peace talks with Zelensky and his officials call him a "loser" and a "clown". He has spoken of the Ukrainian leader's "illegitimacy" - a false narrative that has also been repeated by Trump. As evidence Putin cites the postponement of Ukraine's March 2024 presidential election, although it is because of Russia's war that Ukraine is under martial law and elections are barred under the constitution. Putin's own re-election in 2024 is highly questionable, as Russia's opposition leaders are either in exile or dead. Putin has for years complained about Nato's eastward expansion as a security threat, and sees any possibility of Ukraine joining the alliance as a major red line. Before Russia's 2022 invasion he demanded that Nato remove multinational deployments from the Central and Eastern European states that joined the Western alliance after 1997. But it was Russia that launched military action in Eastern Europe, when it invaded Georgia in 2008 and then Crimea in 2014. After the Crimea invasion, Nato established a continuous presence on its eastern flank - closest to Russia. Nato has always stressed the whole purpose of the alliance is to defend territories "with no aggressive intentions". Sweden and Finland joined Nato after the Ukraine invasion precisely because of the perceived Russian threat. It is part of Ukraine's constitution to join the European Union and Nato, but there was no real prospect of this when the full-scale war began. Zelensky has said he would resign in exchange for Nato membership, but Trump has told Kyiv to "forget about" joining the Western alliance. Putin has accused Nato of participating in the war, because its member states have increasingly sent Ukraine military hardware, including tanks and fighter jets, air defence systems, missile systems, artillery and drones. Nato has provided security assistance and training to Ukraine, but it insists that does not make it a party to the war. Putin's grievance against Nato dates back to 1990, when he claims the West promised not to expand "an inch to the East". However that was before the Soviet Union collapsed and it was based on a limited commitment made to then Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev. Gorbachev said "the topic of Nato expansion was never discussed" at the time. The most likely route is through direct talks, and negotiations mediated by the US have been held - even though no progress on a ceasefire has been made. The breakthrough came in August 2025, when Putin was invited to Alaska for a summit with the US president. The meeting did not yield any clear progress towards a peace deal, and the war continued to rage on. Further US-brokered talks with Russian and Ukrainian delegations - including two rounds of trilateral talks in early 2026 - also failed to bridge the difference between Moscow's demands and the compromises Kyiv is willing to make. The Kremlin has also batted off Trump's continued push for a Putin-Zelensky meeting, arguing that the right conditions were not in place. Russia wants direct talks to address the "root causes of the conflict", a phrase that harks back to Putin's "maximalist" demands at the start of the war in March 2022. These included Ukraine becoming a neutral state, dramatically reducing its military and abandoning its Nato aspirations. Russia also wants international recognition of its territorial gains in Ukraine reflected in any future deal, including annexation of Crimea and four eastern regions. He also wants immediate scheduling of presidential and parliamentary elections. Kyiv will never recognise its sovereign territory as part of Russia, even if it might accept it has been lost temporarily. It has been negotiating security guarantees with Western countries - primarily the US - to ensure Russia never invades its territory again. Before his return to the White House and in the first months of his presidency, Trump suggested Ukraine's president was responsible for the war with Russia. "[Zelensky] should never have let the war start, that war's a loser," he said in October 2024. In reality, the war began in 2014, when Putin seized Crimea and Russian proxies grabbed part of eastern Ukraine. Zelensky had not even entered politics by then. Putin then ordered Russia's full-scale invasion eight years later, after months of meticulous co-ordination and denials of any such plan. However, the US president's messaging has not been altogether consistent. At times, his position appears to have hardened against Russia. "We thought we had [the war] settled numerous times, and then President Putin goes out and starts launching rockets into some city like Kyiv and kills a lot of people," he said last month. Trump announced secondary tariffs on any country still trading with Russia but eventually only imposed a 25% secondary tariff on India's exports to the US as punishment for buying Russian oil, which were later dropped as part of a trade deal. Later in 2025, he imposed direct sanctions on Rosneft and Lukoil, two major Russian oil companies, after the stalemate over peace talks continued. At the start of the 2022 invasion, Putin vowed to protect people in occupied areas of eastern Ukraine from eight years of Ukrainian "bullying and genocide, during the war in the east. More than 14,000 people died on both sides of the front line between 2014-2022, but Russian claims of Ukrainian Nazis committing genocide in the occupied regions never added up, and no international body has spoken of genocide. Germany's chancellor called the allegation "ridiculous". The Russian taunts of Nazis in charge in Kyiv are also not correct. Modern Ukraine has no far-right parties in parliament - they failed to get enough votes in the 2019 elections. On top of that, Zelensky is Jewish and many of his relatives were murdered by the Nazis in World War Two. Putin condemns him as a "disgrace to the Jewish people", but the US Holocaust Memorial Museum rejects his claims outright, saying he "misrepresented and misappropriated Holocaust history". Putin himself was accused of war crimes by the International Criminal Court in 2024, although that has been rejected by the Kremlin. Russia's attempt to stop Ukraine leaving its sphere of influence goes back years, and its initial invasion began in 2014 when pro-Russian president Viktor Yanukovych was ousted after months of mass demonstrations. Yanukovych had abandoned an EU deal under Putin's pressure, prompting protests that ended when snipers shot dead dozens of demonstrators. Yanukovych soon fled to Russia. Putin quickly seized Ukraine's Crimean peninsula and Russian proxies took up arms against the government, occupying parts of the eastern Luhansk and Donetsk regions. Two attempts to stop the war came to nothing. They were known as the Minsk agreements and were brokered by France, Germany and Russia itself. They reduced the scale of violence, but Zelensky has called them a trap that created a frozen conflict on Russia's terms. Both sides accused each other of violations, and the Kremlin said ultimately the failed accords were a precursor to Moscow's full-scale invasion. The Ukrainian leader has warned the Trump administration not to trust Putin: "He broke the ceasefire, he killed our people." Four years on, Russian and Ukrainian forces are in a war of attrition on an active front line of more than 1,000km (629 miles). Neither side has any realistic prospect of winning this war, although Russia is attempting to make further territorial gains during a summer offensive. Russia annexed four regions in eastern and southern Ukraine after sham referendums in 2022, and yet it can really only claim to have full control of one of them, Luhansk. Ukrainian forces were able to liberate large areas of the north and parts of the south in 2022, with more reported success there in early 2026 even though - overall - Ukrainian troops have lost some ground in the east. Much of Russia's firepower has been turned towards the Donetsk region, as towns and villages are destroyed in a slow and grinding advance. The war is taking its toll on Russia's economy, with high interest rates and inflation and defence spending this year of at least 33% of the federal budget. Ukraine has lost a big part of its economic wealth to Russian occupation and destruction in its industrial east. Growth has been hit by attacks on its energy infrastructure. Although inflation and interest rates are high, Ukraine has secured Western aid to cover its budget deficit. Tens of thousands of people have died since Putin sent in the troops in 2022. Ukraine's president has spoken of 55,000 Ukrainian military deaths, but open source site ualosses.org suggests the number is more than 92,000. More than 14,500 civilians have lost their lives in Ukraine, according to the UN, which says the true toll is likely far higher. The year 2025 was the deadliest for civilians since 2022, the UN said. Russia rarely admits to military losses, but BBC analysis estimates that Russian deaths could range from 243,000 and 352,000. The war has forced more than six million Ukrainians to seek refuge abroad and 3.7 million have fled their homes within Ukraine and are internally displaced, according to the UN. At the start of the invasion, Putin did not even call the events "war", but a "special military operation". Eventually in 2024 he accepted it was a war, but claimed it had been instigated by Kyiv or its "Western handlers". Putin appears to believe that Ukraine should remain in Russia's sphere of influence because of the historical links between the two countries. From 1922 to 1991 Ukraine was part of the Soviet Union and many Ukrainians speak Russian, especially in the east, and including Volodymyr Zelensky who is a native speaker. Many Russians view Crimea as their own. It was annexed by Catherine the Great in 1783 and handed to Ukraine by Soviet leader Khrushchev in 1954. Ten years earlier, his predecessor Stalin had deported Crimea's Tatar population, so the majority population was ethnic Russian. Since 1991 Ukraine has been an independent state. It abandoned its nuclear weapons in 1994 in return for guaranteed security from Russia, the UK and US which Moscow failed to respect. Since the war, many Ukrainians have turned their back on Russian, and Zelensky himself avoids using the language in public. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainians living in Britain as part of the Homes for Ukraine scheme have said visa uncertainty is harming their ability to work and contribute to the UK economy. Representatives from the Hilltops Ukrainian Support Community (HUSC) in Buckinghamshire have been to Westminster to deliver a letter arguing their case. Natalia Sushko has been in High Wycombe since September 2022 and said: "There are a lot of cases where visa restrictions were a blockage for children or adults to proceed with jobs or in university or school." The Home Office, which runs Homes for Ukraine, has now said Ukrainians can apply to extend their stays up to 90 days before a visa expires, rather than the current 28 days. In the four years since the war in Ukraine began, about 2,100 refugees have moved to Buckinghamshire and have found their own homes and jobs after being hosted by families. Although they have full rights to work, employers can be reluctant to offer them permanent contracts and places on training or apprenticeship schemes because their visas may not cover the full duration. When Natalia came to the county with her 13-year-old daughter she was offered the chance via the Springboard Foundation to go to state boarding or private school, but she was "rejected because of the limitations of her visa". Her mother said: "I cannot share all the emotions we felt at the time as we were really frustrated to lose such an opportunity. "I do not have a solution to this problem, but think the cases we present [to Westminster] might be analysed so different solutions can be worked out." In the "open letter", HUSC has asked the British government to: Tetiana Pantielieieva also lives in High Wycombe with her son, who has special educational needs. "He is a very bright child so there could be a very nice path for him," she said, adding that she hoped it could include a place at the local state grammar school. She said her son would soon be 11 and "speaks perfect English and follows UK rules at school and has integrated into this kind of life". However, she said he could miss out on a school place as their visa was due to run out in October, yet they were currently unable to apply for an extension until September. She said most Ukrainian families were settled and working, so it would be "helpful to have certainty". She cited a scheme for people from Afghanistan "where they can live in the UK for three years and then receive settled status". She added: "We cannot go back home because there is no place in Ukraine which could be safe." However, if they did have to go home, she said her son had forgotten a lot of "his native language, because he speaks English, so the first challenge for him to return to Ukraine would be the language limitations." Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Use our interactive tracker to explore the latest migration statistics for the UK BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Parts of Ukraine's capital were the worst an aid volunteer has ever seen them, he said after his most recent trip. Trips during the winter were the most difficult because of the freezing weather and attacks on the country's energy infrastructure, Gary Fear from Gnosall, Staffordshire, said. He has carried out 13 aid missions to the country since Russia's full-scale invasion and plans to take supplies such as food, generators and power banks again in May. "They're having a dreadful time, especially in Kyiv," he said. European leaders are in Kyiv and  commemorative events are being held across the country to mark the fourth anniversary of the invasion. "We've seen so many people living in literally frozen, dark apartments," Fear said. He described roads covered in snow and ice and temperatures as low as -21C (-5.8F) during one recent trip. "We've visited places where they've erected tents in the grounds of apartment complexes," he said. "These tents are filled with heat from gas heaters, they've got electricity in there, so people can go and get warm but they're living in a way that, probably, you and I have never dreamed that we'd experience." He said the Ukrainians quickly fixed things that were damaged during the conflict, but his recollections of recent trips to Kyiv were the worst he had seen the city. "Kyiv is normally a really vibrant city, lit up and everything – I went through it several times on the last trip and most of it was just in complete darkness, street lights if you're lucky." He said it was "fabulous" to be part of the operation helping people there, and thanked people for their generosity with assisting his fundraising. "It's the support that's probably surprised me more than anything, and I'm very grateful for it." He has raised more than £150,000 to fund his aid work in the past four years, which had enabled him to support more than 7,500 families. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky told the BBC's international editor Jeremy Bowen that Putin had started World War Three, and that only intense military and economic pressure would force him to stop. At least 55,000 Ukrainian soldiers have been killed since 24 February 2022 according to Zelensky, but the toll is likely to be higher. BBC analysis estimates Russian military deaths could range from 243,000 and 352,000 The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office advises against all travel to many parts of Ukraine, and against all but essential travel to some parts of the country. Follow BBC Stoke & Staffordshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The war in Ukraine is now in its fifth year. Over the past few months, Russian forces have slowly expanded the amount of territory they control, mostly in the east of Ukraine, and have continued their barrage of air strikes on Kyiv and other cities. Some 55,000 Ukrainian soldiers have been killed, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, while the BBC has confirmed the names of almost 160,000 people killed fighting on Russia's side. Four years after Russia's full-scale invasion, here's a look at the situation on the ground in Ukraine. Analysts at the US-based Institute for the Study of War (ISW), say Russia took about 4,700 sq km (1,800 sq miles) of territory in 2025 - an area about twice the size of the city of Moscow - although Russia claims to have taken 6,000 sq km. In eastern Ukraine, Moscow's war machine has been churning mile by mile through the wide open fields of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions - also known as the Donbas - surrounding and overwhelming villages and towns. It has been trying to gain full control of the area along with two more regions to the west - Zaporizhzhia and Kherson. Shortly after the invasion, Russia held referendums to try to annexe all these regions - in the same way it had annexed Crimea in 2014 - but it has never had them under full control. There is some evidence that Elon Musk's decision to deny Russian forces access to his Starlink satellite-based internet service at the start of February has given Ukraine an advantage. Ukraine requested the move as evidence grew that Starlink was enabling Russian forces to mount increasingly accurate attacks, including multiple instances of units being attached to drones, allowing operators to use real-time video links to guide drones on to targets. In some areas of the long front line, especially east of the city of Zaporizhzhia, Russian forces appear to have been forced to retreat. Ukraine hopes that any territorial gains will strengthen the its position at the negotiating table. It comes after a US-backed peace plan unveiled in November, suggested Ukraine could cede control of all of Luhansk, Donetsk and Crimea, along with the areas of Zaporizhzhia and Kherson that Russia currently occupies, to Moscow. Ukrainian forces would have had to withdraw from parts of Donetsk they still hold and this would become a demilitarised area under de facto Russian control. Russian forces would withdraw from the small areas of Ukraine they currently occupy outside those regions. Zelensky has consistently said Ukraine will not hand over the Donbas in exchange for peace, saying such a concession could be used as a springboard for future attacks by Russia. A recent report by the ISW describes a "fortress belt" running 50km (31 miles) through western Donetsk. "Ukraine has spent the last 11 years pouring time, money, and effort into reinforcing the fortress belt and establishing significant defence industrial and defensive infrastructure," it writes. A Russian summer offensive near the eastern town of Pokrovsk did make rapid advances just north of the town and Russia has recently made advances in the town itself and to the east of nearby Kostyantynivka. The town, once a key logistics hub for Ukraine's military, is already in ruins. Russian officials previously claimed to have captured Pokrovsk, known in Russian as Krasnoarmeysk, which includes a major road and railway junction that used to connect the upper parts of the Donetsk region with key cities to the west, such as Dnipro. But Ukraine says it still holds northern parts of the town. Its fall would be Russia's biggest battlefield victory since it took the city of Avdiivka about 40km (25 miles) to the east in early 2024 and could give Moscow a platform to drive north towards the two biggest remaining Ukrainian-controlled cities in the Donetsk region, Kramatorsk and Sloviansk. Ukraine is losing ground, but the ISW notes Russia has been trying to take Pokrovsk - a town of about 23 sq km - for nearly two years and that the cities in the fortress belt are "significantly larger". It suggests that it would take Russian forces another two years to seize the remainder of the Donetsk region "at great cost". Further north on the main front line, Russia has been trying to advance on the city of Kupyansk, which analysts suggest could allow it to encircle the northern Donetsk region. It has also been trying to push Ukrainian forces back from the border with the Russian region of Belgorod. ISW analysts say Russia is trying to create a buffer zone inside Ukraine's northern borders and get within artillery range of Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-biggest city. Russia's forces have recently gained limited control over a spear of land to the south of Vovchansk that would bring them closer to this target. Russian President Vladimir Putin says he wants this buffer zone to protect Russia, after Ukrainian forces captured a swathe of territory further north in Kursk in the summer of 2024. Russian forces eventually drove them out, with the help of North Korean troops. As well as the counter-offensive in the Kursk region, Ukraine has struck air bases deep inside Russia. One of these attacks involved using 100 drones to target nuclear-capable long-range bombers. The Russian Defence Ministry confirmed the attacks had occurred in five regions of Russia - Murmansk, Irkutsk, Ivanovo, Ryazan and Amur - but stated planes had been damaged only in Murmansk and Irkutsk, while in other locations the attacks had been repelled. A massive attack by Ukrainian drones on Volzhsky, in the Volgograd region in Russia, was also reported on 11 February. Deep strikes are seen as a critical part of the war - Ukraine is trying to target Russia's war economy to slow the advances on the front line. Russia has also been carrying out strikes on Ukrainian infrastructure - in particular its energy facilities such as electricity substations and power plants. They include a reported overnight attack on 22 February in Kyiv and around the capital city, where dozens of strikes targeted energy infrastructure. Several people have been killed in the attacks and tens of thousands of people across Ukraine have experienced severe power cuts or been left with no running water or heating during some of the coldest months of the winter. These attacks were paused for a week following a request from US President Donald Trump to Putin. Trump has been leading efforts to end the war through negotiations, and Zelensky said this month that the US wanted the war to end by June. However, the most recent round of talks between Russia, Ukraine and the US in Geneva, Switzerland, concluded without a breakthrough on 18 February. Some progress was made on "military issues", including the location of the front line and ceasefire monitoring, according to a Ukrainian diplomatic source. White House spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt said later that "there was meaningful progress" made on both sides, and an agreement to "continue to work towards a peace deal together". But an agreement on the issue of territory - without which no ceasefire can be envisaged - remains elusive, with Moscow and Kyiv's positions still far apart. Russia's full-scale invasion began with dozens of missile strikes on cities all over Ukraine before dawn on 24 February 2022. Russian ground troops moved in quickly and within a few weeks were in control of large areas of Ukraine and had advanced to the suburbs of Kyiv. Russian forces were bombarding Kharkiv, and had taken territory in the east and south as far as Kherson, and surrounded the port city of Mariupol. But they hit very strong Ukrainian resistance almost everywhere and faced serious logistical problems with poorly motivated Russian troops suffering shortages of food, water and ammunition. Ukrainian forces were also quick to deploy Western supplied arms such as the Nlaw anti-tank system, which proved highly effective against the Russian advance. By October 2022, the picture had changed dramatically and, having failed to take Kyiv, Russia withdrew completely from the north. The following month, Ukrainian forces recaptured the southern city of Kherson. Since then, the battle has mostly been in the east of Ukraine with Russian forces slowly gaining ground over many months. Both Kyiv and Moscow have regularly published estimates of the other side's losses but they have been reluctant to detail their own. As of six months ago, Ukraine's interior ministry had recorded more than 70,000 people as officially missing - both soldiers and civilians - but the breakdown is never given and the true figure may be higher. However, Zelensky said at the start of February that 55,000 soldiers had been killed. By Dominic Bailey, Mike Hills, Paul Sargeant, Chris Clayton, Kady Wardell, Camilla Costa, Mark Bryson, Sana Dionysiou, Gerry Fletcher, Kate Gaynor and Erwan Rivault To indicate which parts of Ukraine are under control by Russian troops we are using daily assessments published by the Institute for the Study of War with the American Enterprise Institute's Critical Threats Project. The situation in Ukraine is often fast moving and it is likely there will be times when there have been changes not reflected in the maps. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Viktoriia Izviekova was 14 years old when she fled her home with her mum and their dog as Russia invaded Ukraine. Viktoriia, from Kharkiv, recalls her mum frantically packing bags in the early hours of the morning on 24 February 2022 as news of war broke. They lived in a bunker for the first two weeks, before they travelled to  Poltava, and then Poland while a friend helped them relocate to the UK. Viktoriia, who is now studying Journalism at Bournemouth University and building her new life in Dorset, reflects on the last four years. Now 18, Viktoriia was raised by her mum and says she was a busy child: "I also had a dog, a mini chihuahua, but I was just doing everything I could do. I was always busy. "I was going to school, I was doing dancing for 11 years. I did everything." She explains she was also incredibly close with her grandma: "She always made me cook and everything, and so I feel like it's just made me just the better person I am. I just feel alive there, you know. "I feel warm when I'm thinking about it. Because my family was close. I could speak in my own language, I could talk to my friends about what I want, whereas here I can't really to do that." Viktoriia recalls the moment she realised a war had begun in Ukraine. The student says: "I remember it was 04:00 and I woke up because my mum was running around on a call with my auntie and she was just packing bags. "We started packing bags and we went to my sister because she lives on the first floor and she was next to the bunker." Viktoriia, her mum and her dog spent two weeks living in the bunker. She explains: "We were living in the bunker and it was horrible to see people who were hopeless. "I remember looking at the sky and I was thinking that I'm never gonna see it again. "I took a picture and it makes me a bit like sad when I look at it, but I just couldn't believe it. It's like feels like a nightmare, which you can't control. "I was just sleeping next to my sister and just hugging her and I was just hoping that nothing's going to happen because when you are there, you don't know if someone would come in there and something might happen." After spending time living with her cousin, who she refers to as her sister, her mum decided to take Viktoriia and their Chihuahua to the nearest city which was Paltova. "My mum decided to take me out, so we went to closest city to Poltava, and people from there provided us a house, which was very nice, to be honest," she says. "We were driving there because it was a green corridor, so it was safe zone. "But then we heard shootings in the forest. I still don't know what was in that forest, but I just know the sound. "All the cars started turning around, but my mom was like stunned. She just couldn't move." The family then decided to come to the UK, after a friend who was already here offered to help with the process. Viktoriia explains: "We headed over to Poland. Stayed there for a couple of weeks, and then we came in England." Viktoriia initially moved to Sturminster Newton in Dorset. She says: "It was really challenging because when I came here I didn't know any language. I couldn't even introduce myself. And I was put in year 11, I met a Ukrainian girl, we're really good friends, but it was really, really difficult for me to adapt. "I was getting avoided, I didn't feel included. "I was there [in Sturminster Newton] doing my GCSEs one year. So, I got them. I went to another school in six form, did four A-levels, and then I came into Bournemouth University to do my journalism degree." Looking back, Viktoriia says it is a shock to see where she has ended up. "Four years ago I couldn't even speak English. Now I'm in university doing a degree. I would not expect this. "I want to be back home. I want Ukraine to be free. That's all I want. And then I'll be free, if Ukraine will be free." You can follow BBC Dorset on Facebook, X, or Instagram. Nick Barnes from Dorset has won the South West Coast Photographer of the Year 2025. A story about lighting being installed at the Beckham's home was among our most read stories this week. Dale Oscroft's father saw his anti-tank weapon bounce off the feared Tiger 131 in a 1943 battle. The best images sent to us from Berkshire, Dorset, Hampshire, the Isle of Wight and Oxfordshire. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
When the Russian invasion of Ukraine began on 24 February 2022, Anastasiia and her family stayed in the city of Chernihiv for almost two weeks until it became "unbearable". Russian forces laid siege to the city in the north of the country but failed to capture it. With no electricity, no running water and no internet connection the residents felt "isolated from the whole world". Anastasiia's family managed to relocate to the safer western part of Ukraine for a few weeks and when the Russians opted to bypass Chernihiv, they returned to what was left of the war-torn city. Anastasiia says civilians had to be cautious not to step on explosives left by Russians during the siege. This is when her family decided it was time for her to move to a safer place. Anastasiia moved to the UK with a friend in July 2022 when they both were 18. Her first home in Scotland was Inverurie in Aberdeenshire, where the pair lived with a sponsor. In Ukraine, Anastasiia had been studying remotely and when she got to Scotland she was accepted into second year at Aberdeen University. She told BBC Scotland News: "Everything was new but the hardest for me was probably being separated from family for the first time." Anastasiia says she found support in other Ukrainian students and together they created a Ukrainian Society in the university. "For me as a Ukrainian student, it was probably a different experience, not like for all other students," she says. "Because during lectures you can get notifications about your part of Ukraine. "You see that there was bombing and you straightaway text your family." Since 2022, Anastasiia has seen her family just three times - most recently at Christmas when she returned for a week and a half. "It was actually very scary time in Chernihiv," she says. "There were a few bombings. One of them was only five minutes away from my house." She says: "It was scary to hear the sound of upcoming rocket into your house. "And you don't know where it hits, you just hope it's not your home." Anastasiia, who graduated with an MA in Economics, says she wants to stay in the UK but the uncertain visa situation impacts her a lot. She says it has been challenging to find the graduate job because her Homes for Ukraine visa does not guarantee long-term settlement. Alisa Nartova also moved to Scotland on her own when she was 18. She left the Ukrainian capital Kyiv to continue her university education as the war and regular interruptions of electricity, heat and water supply started to severely impact her mental health. Before starting the university she worked for a year as a military linguist. Having only herself to rely on, upon her arrival Alisa had to deal with paperwork, filling documentation, and dealing with university admissions on her own. In her first months she faced a language and cultural barrier and stayed with a sponsor - a person she had never met before. All the while, she battled what she describes as "survivor's guilt" - feeling guilty for being safe, while her family and friends are still in danger in Ukraine. Alisa told BBC Scotland: "I have lost a lot of friends. People I knew for years, both guys and girls. "Funerals is, really not nice, but often a place where you would find yourself if you are in your 20s and from Ukraine. "The grief never lets go of you. "You do not know where to put it and you just live with that." Alisa says she find it difficult to answer the question "how are you?", especially after returning from her Christmas break in Ukraine "It was minus 20C with no heating, no electricity, no water supply and a constant threat of a rocket, drone or missile," she says. "You wake up from explosions nearby and in the morning you go to the places that were hit to help clean up the rubble." But she says Ukraine remains her home. "The depression, the anxiety, and it's all there," she says. "But at the same time, it's the jokes, it's the festivals, it's the laughing on the streets, it's people showing love to each other. Alisa says she wants to return to Ukraine after finishing her studies in Scotland to help rebuild her home country. She is in the second year of MA Criminology and Sociology course and says: "Ukraine is home and always will be but I can say that I've found home here, too." Anastasiia Korkina also came to Scotland when she was 18. At the beginning she found it difficult to settle in a completely new environment. She says she felt depressed because of the invasion and she didn't know what the future would hold for her. After applying to universities, she got into the University of Aberdeen. She told BBC Scotland News: "I found my saving in education here. "Rather than being sad about the invasion I decided to invest my time in education." Some of her family lives in Odesa - a major seaport in the south-west of Ukraine. Others live in a region currently occupied by Russia - and Anastasiia says she has no contact with them at the moment. Anastasiia visits Odesa every six months and every time she says she experiences all the "harsh" conditions people in Ukraine are facing. "I heard a lot of explosions, I heard bombings, drones, rockets, ballistic missiles at some point probably flying over our heads and it's been awful," she says. "But my hometown Odesa is so beautiful so I keep coming back. "My friends and family, they're so resistant but it's so sad to see their lives and  youth been taken away. "They seem so exhausted because genuinely they work every day so hard. "And it's not life, I would say, it's more of a surviving." Anastasiia says she doesn't have a feeling of home anymore. She finds home in her family and friendships both in Scotland and Ukraine. She is coming to the end of the studies and is facing uncertainties like other graduates about what will come next. Anastasiia says she has learned to detach from the stress of uncertainty. "There was so much pain and exhaustion regarding my beloved country," she says. "I do not feel pain anymore really. "I just feel numbness, I just detach myself from it." Anastasiia says she would love to stay in the UK to build her career here. "I've already built such a nice connection with people here so it would be a shame to just let it go and start again," she says. Strong winds battered the country on Saturday through the night, with a top wind speed of 73mph recorded in Buchan, Aberdeenshire. The annual race was created in honour of Queen Elizabeth II's platinum jubilee, honouring her favourite breed. A review of the front page stories from the daily newspapers in Scotland. Procurement for another new CalMac ferry begins but the GMB union says UK-based shipbuilders will struggle to compete with firms in "low-wage economies". Actor David Hayman looks back at the BBC drama which imagined Christ walking Glasgow's mean streets. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A city square will light up in blue and yellow to show solidarity with the people of Ukraine, four years since Russia launched its full-scale invasion. Queen Victoria Square in Hull will be illuminated later with the Ukraine flag already flying at the Guildhall, Hull City Council said. Thousands of refugees have sought safety in the UK under the Homes for Ukraine scheme with many coming to East Yorkshire. Leader of Hull City Council Mike Ross said: "As much as we can do, we remain steadfast in our opposition to Russia's actions, and our solidarity will continue with Ukraine throughout." Ross said the square will light up from dusk to allow the city to pay tribute to Ukrainians' suffering over the last four years. Listen to highlights from Hull and East Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
On a dark and cold night in Donetsk in eastern Ukraine, the netting protecting the road from attacks by explosive drones shimmered and rippled in the headlights of our armoured Toyota Land Cruiser, as we drove down strange and surreal tunnels to get in and out of the most intensive area of fighting in eastern Ukraine. The nets go on for miles, suspended from wooden poles around 20ft high along the sides and over the top of the road. Dystopian military vehicles straight out of Mad Max rumble past, encased in their own cages of steel and netting. Nets snag the propellers of attacking drones, making them a cheap and surprisingly effective physical barrier. Even if their Russian controllers detonate the charge they carry, there is a chance that the explosion will not be close enough to kill people using the road in civilian buses and cars as well as military vehicles. Much of the netting has been donated by European fishermen. Only this week the Scottish government announced it was sending over another 280 tonnes of salmon nets that were about to be recycled. Before any of it gets used, the Ukrainian military crashes drones into it to test its strength. The three most feared letters on the battlefield are FPV, standing for "first-person view." FPV drones are major killers, used by both Ukraine and Russia. They have cameras that feed information back to their controllers in a command centre that might be 30 or 40km away. We visited a few of them, hidden away in basements of wrecked buildings or nondescript village houses. Inside there are banks of screens, relaying video and data from drones that is analysed by the Ukrainian military's leading-edge software. The cameras zoom in on small figures of soldiers moving around the ruins, with the controllers directing the men on the ground through walkie-talkies, callsigns and headsets. We could see the men entering buildings where the drones had seen Russians hiding, and emerging after they had killed them. Early versions of the drones were controlled by radio signals, but both sides are experts at electronic warfare and quickly found ways to jam them. Now they are mostly controlled by fibre optic cables, so thin that a spool 25km long (that carries data and video) fits into a container built into the drone that is the size of a large bottle of bleach. Eastern Ukraine used to feel like a throwback to the Western Front in World War One, with trenches and dugouts reinforced against artillery and snipers. After the full-scale invasion four years ago it still, for a while, felt like a 20th Century battlefield. But now drones have transformed the way the war is fought, and armies across the world are watching closely, being forced to change their ideas of how to fight. The narrow confrontation line that used to exist between the two sides is now extended across a broad swathe of land that both sides call the kill zone, stretching perhaps 20km either side of the forward positions of the two armies. Rear positions for logistics and dealing with casualties that used to be relatively safe are now as lethal as the old front line. The skies above get saturated with surveillance drones, making movement extremely dangerous. Social media feeds are full of terrifying videos filmed from FPV drones as they swoop into their targets, sometimes chasing down individuals in the open, or even entering buildings, threading their way through rooms and doorways until they find their quarry. The last shot is often of a horrified man about to die. Artillery and tanks are still formidable weapons. But a drone that costs around a thousand dollars can, in the hands of a skilled pilot, destroy a tank that costs $30m (£22m). The Wall St Journal recently reported that a small group of Ukrainian drone pilots created havoc when they were invited to oppose Nato forces in an exercise in Estonia last year. Nato has a lot of catching up to do. One major consequence of the last four years of war is that Ukraine and Russia are now the most experienced and proficient practitioners of drone warfare in the world. Both countries are constantly innovating to get ahead in the drone war. Both have been using Starlink system owned by the world's richest man, Elon Musk for battlefield communications and navigation. The Russians had a recent setback when Musk agreed to turn off Russian-registered terminals active inside Ukraine. That seems to be a major reason why Ukraine, with an active Starlink system funded by Poland, recently recaptured territory in the south. But all the Ukrainian drone units I visited believed that the Russians would soon find a workaround. They respect the skills of the elite Russian drone units they said were called Rubicon and Day of Judgement. A senior officer told me that western Europeans need to forget the military blunders Russia made after the full-scale invasion four years ago and make a distinction between the thousands of front-line Russian soldiers who are killed every month and the elite drone units that Moscow values as a key part of their war effort. He said they were "cherished" by the Russian army. On my most recent visit to Ukraine, the threat from drones meant we watched the weather forecast closely before heading into Donetsk, postponing during a day of clear blue skies and waiting for more snow. Drones struggle in bad weather. Feeling a little reassured by the nets and the snow, we headed towards the town of Slovyansk, past the ruined shells of buildings destroyed over the last four years. Slovyansk functions as a town, just about, with some cafes and shops open. But  thousands of residents have moved to safer places, and when the people who have stayed go out, their fear of Russian FPV drones means they hurry down the icy, snow-covered streets to get through their errands to make it home alive. Nets are going up in the town centre. Slovyansk is high on Russian President Vladimir Putin's uncompromising list of terms for a ceasefire. A big part of the price he is demanding is for Ukraine to give up the 20% or so of Donetsk it still controls, along with other land that his army has been unable to capture, in the southern regions of Zaporizhzhia and Kherson. According to Ukranian President Volodymyr Zelensky, the Americans have pushed him to take the deal, to get to a ceasefire by the summer. US President Donald Trump also wants Zelensky to call an election, a demand he has not directed at Putin. The evidence suggests that Trump wants to be able to declare he has ended the war. Even if a ceasefire didn't last, he would treat it as a victory he will take into the US mid-term elections next autumn. He is also eyeing huge business deals with Russia, which cannot happen until sanctions are lifted. The Americans have tried to impose deadlines for a deal. Most recently they told Zelensky he needed to agree to a ceasefire by the summer that Donald Trump could concentrate on the mid-terms. The US inability to bend Ukraine – or Russia – to its will shows that its leverage has limits. Four years after Russia's full scale invasion, there is no discernible evidence that a genuine ceasefire is coming . When I saw President Zelensky this weekend in Kyiv, he told me that he could never give up land that Russia has not been able to capture. He would never, he said, abandon the people there, and even if he was tempted to do so it would not work, as within two years by his reckoning, the Russian military would be ready and reequipped and Putin would order them to attack again. The first person we visited in Slovyansk was Oleh Tkachenko, a beefy middle-aged pastor who has built up a remarkable relief operation. He is one of the few people outside the military who travel to the most dangerous areas, delivering bread to outlying villages that he makes in his own bakery, which produces 17,000 loaves per week. After his deliveries he often returns with residents who have had enough of living near the front line. Oleh's bakery is an oasis of order and warmth in the freezing, snow-covered ruins of an industrial area on the edge of Slovyansk. The UN World Food Programme helped him re-establish it when he was forced out of his hometown, which is now occupied. He told me that the dangers in Donetsk have multiplied in the last few months as the drone war has intensified. "The situation has changed radically. There are only very dangerous places and relatively dangerous places. Nowhere is safe in the Donetsk region anymore." I asked him whether Zelensky should give in to Russian and American pressure to sacrifice Donetsk for a ceasefire. It was the same question I put to everyone I met in Slovyansk, and it produced the same kind of answer. "What more does Putin want? This is my Donetsk region. I was born here. My children were born here. I created my family here. And I should leave all that? What for?" Putin, he said, should not be allowed to take and keep territory that does not belong to Russia. "We are destroying the values on which this world is built on one person's whim. Not only will the villain avoid punishment, he [will] also be rewarded? I'm sorry. How many villains like this are there in the world?" At a coffee bar I met Oleksii Yukov. He runs an organisation called Advis Platsdarm that collects the bodies of dead soldiers from where they were killed, to honour their memory, and before they get a decent burial, identify them to give their families some certainty about them. Oleksii makes no distinctions between dead Russians and dead Ukrainians, but that does not mean he is also prepared to accept Russian domination in Donetsk. Like Oleh, he does not believe promises made by Putin. "So if a maniac comes to your home and says, "Give me your daughter and I won't come back," do you really think that a man like this – who rapes and pillages - is simply going to stop?" "We all know who the maniacs are, right? It's horrifying. To give away a part of yourself – or your child – to be torn apart… I don't understand why this question is even asked of Ukrainians." Oleksii has also recovered the remains of soldiers killed in World War Two in the Donbas, the name used for Donetsk and its neighbouring region, Luhansk, which has fallen to Russia in its entirety. He compares Putin's promises to ones made by Adolf Hitler at the Munich conference in 1938. Hitler claimed that a slice of Czechoslovakia known as the Sudetenland was his last territorial demand in Europe. Britain and France accepted his word as the price of avoiding the World War that started the following year. Like many people in this part of Europe, Oleksii sees parallels with the past. "Promises made by Russia are worth nothing – just like Hitler's promises that once he took the Sudetenland nothing else would happen. We all saw what that led to: the Second World War. Now it could lead to a Third World War if we do not stop and tell Putin that people live here – people who want to live in their own country, on their own land. Each of them has that right. No Ukrainian has the right to say we can give anything away." Oleksii believes that forcing Ukraine to give up Donetsk without a fight would be as much of a betrayal as Czechoslovakia suffered at Munich. Along with its embattled neighbour Kramatorsk, Slovyansk is designated as a "fortress city". Both are protected by miles of deep anti-tank ditches filled with razor wire and concrete anti-tank obstacles known as "dragon's teeth". The towns sit on a range of hills that is the last high ground before around 150 miles of flat land, mostly fields, that stretch right up to the next natural obstacle, the mighty Dnieper River that bisects Ukraine from north to south. Ukrainians argue that stopping the Russians if they reached the flatlands would be much harder. Four years ago, almost to the day, I was at the main railway station in Kyiv, watching a scene straight out of Europe's dark past play out in a bitter wind off the Ukrainian steppe. Kyiv was in the depths of a frigid winter so monochrome that the scene on the platform could have been an old newsreel, but it was 2022 and happening in a technicolour, digital age. It was the loudest warning yet that the world had changed, that old assumptions about European security and the safety of the future had to be forgotten. Since then, other warnings have sounded, in the Middle East, in Sudan and in Taiwan, while the war in Ukraine has incubated the biggest crisis in the North Atlantic alliance since it was created in 1949. The gap remains wide between Trump's openness to Putin and the much harsher view of Moscow held by most European members of Nato. In that first week of the war, the platforms at Kyiv station were packed, mostly with Ukrainian women and children, desperate to board trains going west to escape the advancing Russian army. Russian artillery and answering salvoes from the Ukrainians echoed around the empty streets of the city centre, making the threat to the city frighteningly real. Trains pulled in every 15 or 20 minutes, as many as the endlessly enterprising operators of Ukraine's railway network could find in the sidings and marshalling yards. Frightened people jostled their way on, leaving tearful goodbyes on the platform with those staying to fight. At the height of the evacuation 50,000 people a day were passing through the station. In the station concourse a young soldier with a Kalashnikov slung across his back was hugging his girlfriend before she left to go west and he went back to his unit. They could have been a Norman Rockwell cover for the Saturday Evening Post, the magazine that cheered on Americans after they entered World War Two. Zelensky showed immediately that he was an instinctive war leader, a born communicator who was able to rally his people. On the first dark night of the war, dismissing rumours that he had fled, he appeared in olive green military attire, recording a video selfie in front of the presidency building in Kyiv, with his closest advisors behind him. "We are all here, our soldiers are here, the citizens of the country are here. We are all here protecting our independence, our country and we are going to continue to do so." The first months of Russia's full-scale invasion went by for Ukrainians in waves of fear, determination, grief, and patriotic fervour. Some of the Russian soldiers in towns they had occupied around Kyiv carried out massacres – leaving the bodies sprawled where they had been killed on the highway, on the streets of Bucha and in shallow graves. We saw the bodies after Ukraine forced the Russians to retreat from the capital, a victory that confounded the prediction of their western allies that they would be beaten in a few weeks. Ukraine's unexpected strength persuaded the then US President Joe Biden and other European leaders to send more powerful weapons to Kyiv, though never as many or as fast as the Ukrainians wanted. Ukrainians who stayed were volunteering to fight. Those who couldn't set up workshops that churned out Molotov cocktails and camouflage netting. Four years on that energy has dissipated. That should not be surprising. War is all-consuming, and exhausting. It has been replaced by a grim determination to carry on, especially among front line soldiers and their families. Zelensky said earlier this month that 55,000 Ukrainian soldiers have been killed in the last four years, accepting that many more were classified as missing. The real figure is likely to be much higher than 55,000. The chances are that their remains are somewhere along the 800-mile front line. Recruiting new soldiers to replace them in the terrible danger of the deadly and expanding kill zone on the front lines is a struggle. In the cities and at checkpoints men of military age face snap inspections of their papers. If they are eligible for conscription, and do not have an exemption from service, they can be driven off to the barracks on the spot. Getting enough soldiers to fight on is one of Ukraine's greatest challenges, yet polls show substantial majorities here believe that Ukraine can fight on, despite Russian advances on the battlefield, and has no choice as they believe Russia wants to destroy them as a nation. A majority also do not believe that the US-brokered talks will produce a lasting peace. But even though a majority believe Ukraine does not have a choice about fighting on, putting on a uniform and heading for the front line is not a popular choice. Valeriy Puzik, an author and poet, volunteered to fight and has spent months at the front line. I met him in a trendy bar in Kyiv, a world away from the six metre deep dug out he inhabited with his squad at the front line for more than 100 days. I asked him why it was so hard to recruit. "Because when a person leaves a position, they don't say anything positive. And word of mouth does the worst damage. Because, there is nothing positive there. I wouldn't wish any of my friends to crawl into a burrow and sit there… I was lucky to survive. Usually, people sit in those burrows for 90, 100, 160 days. We were basically supposed to stay there until spring." Valeriy survived his latest deployment to the front because he volunteered to evacuate two wounded comrades. Before he could be sent back, his old position was attacked and the men who stayed behind, he says, were killed or are missing. Evacuating the wounded men, he believes, saved his life. "If it weren't for those injuries, most likely we all would have died there." Ukraine and Russia have been fighting since 2014 when President Putin ordered the occupation and annexation of Crimea on the Black Sea and then seized parts of the Donbas in the east. On this current trip, I have seen no evidence that the war is going to end soon. The full-scale invasion four years ago was Putin's attempt to eliminate the independence of Ukraine once and for all. He has said many times that history shows Ukraine belongs with Russia. A few days before the anniversary of the invasion President Zelensky dismissed that succinctly in a post on X: "I don't need historical shit to end this war and move to diplomacy. Because it's just a delay tactic. I read no less history books than Putin. And I learned a lot." Zelensky has weathered a corruption scandal that forced the resignation last autumn of his chief of staff, Andrii Yermak. He has trenchant critics, and potential rivals, but still has approval ratings of which most western leaders can only dream. This week, far to the east of Kyiv, the trains that evacuated hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians in February and March 2022 are still taking people out of harm's way. The Russia military moves at a glacial pace, but in the key battleground of Donetsk in the east it is grinding forward, chewing up lives, the landscape, and whole villages and towns. Ukraine still holds around a fifth of Donetsk oblast, or region. It is the most intensely fought-over part of Ukraine. One after another, a series of battles over four years have turned towns and villages into rubble, from Bakhmut earlier in the war to Pokrovsk now. Every day buses cross the regional border from Donetsk to Lozova in the Kharkiv oblast, carrying civilian evacuees. A school has been turned into a warm and clean relief coordination centre – packed with families surrounded with a few bags of possessions, dogs on leads, cats in baskets and most of all tormented by loss. Serhii and Viktoria had arrived from Druzhkivka, a town that has been sucked into the kill zone. Their teenage daughter Diana sat silently next to them, with her cat Mika on her lap. Like millions of others displaced by war, here and in other turbulent stretches of the world, they were leaving to save themselves, knowing too well that also meant not just losing the remains of their old lives, but also personal independence. Now they had to sit and wait while the paperwork was done and someone else told them what to do. Viktoria explained why they had left their home. "We are on the brink. We didn't have any gas, water or power. No heating. We were staying there till the very last moment, freezing for three days." Back at the end of 2022, their town, Druzhkivka, was seen as a relatively safe haven when we used it as a base to report the Russian attack on Bakhmut. But no one goes there now, Viktoria says. Druzhkivka is too dangerous. "The drones destroy everything alive – the cars, the people, their homes. I can't tell you without tears." "It is very difficult. We have abandoned everything we worked for our whole lives. Everything we worked for, for our families, all we were building. And we had to abandon all that in one moment…everything… We could only pack some small things. We could not have taken more." Standing near them was Tamara, with her nine-year-old twin granddaughters, Mila and Tina. "The kids. We left because of the kids. We live near the forest… There are lots of tanks… drones are flying everywhere… there is no peace …the children are running to me and crying… it is very loud…. Everything is shaking…" Once they were registered, the families with their bags and their pets were bused to Lozova station, to board a long train heading for Lviv in western Ukraine. Lozova used to be a busy junction for trains heading further east. Now it is now the last stop for Ukrainian railways. The lines beyond it are too dangerous. The talks brokered by Trump's envoys, the president's son-in-law Jared Kushner and his friend, the real estate billionaire, Steve Witkoff, continue. They are expected to convene again in Geneva after the anniversary of the invasion. Witkoff made positive noises after the last round but both Russia and Ukraine talked about a difficult atmosphere. It is hard to see any kind of ceasefire emerging unless either Putin or Zelensky change their fundamental positions. Since both sides believe they can fight on to some kind of victory that is not likely to change. The negotiations appear more of an exercise in placating Trump, so that he cannot blame either Moscow or Kyiv for their failure. The US president tends to default back to putting pressure on Ukraine. In the past he has claimed, untruthfully, that Zelensky is a dictator who started the war. Zelensky laughed and said it wasn't true when I asked him about it. On the eve of the last round, just before the anniversary Trump told journalists that "Ukraine better come to the table, fast". Trump has ended almost all military aid, but Ukraine still depends on intelligence only the US can provide. Europe buys US weapons, especially interceptor missiles from the Americans on behalf of Ukraine. On this trip to Ukraine I have found a country that remains defiant. It does not feel close to defeat. The big cities function well, despite Russia's concerted and effective attacks throughout this bitterly cold winter on its power and heating grid. In Kyiv, there are traffic jams, well-stocked shops, restaurants and cafés. There are also air-raid sirens, often in the small hours of the morning, and terrible stories of civilians being killed in their own homes by Russian drones and ballistic missiles. Ukraine is rebuilding the military-industrial complex that existed here in Soviet times, concentrating on long range strikes on Russia. President Zelensky told me they can win the war, and if Ukraine is to fight on, it will need increasing levels of European support. Spring is in sight, but in this part of Europe winter can drag on into April. Russia has put immense pressure on Ukraine throughout the coldest winter in years by targeting power stations and Soviet-era plants that provide districts with hot water and heat. In the ruins of a power station that the Ukrainians allowed us to visit on condition we did not identify it, workers were salvaging steel from the wreckage. The plant had been hammered by Russian missiles and drones. Repairs were out of the question. It needed to be rebuilt. With his breath condensing in clouds in temperatures double figures below zero, a foreman summed the attitude that is common here, when I asked him why Russia was attacking them. "They want to make us kneel. They want to bring Ukraine to its knees." That is a fact, and Ukraine's determination to stop it happening is why this war continues. Top picture credit: Global Images Ukraine via Getty Images BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. Emma Barnett and John Simpson bring their pick of the most thought-provoking deep reads and analysis, every Saturday. Sign up for the newsletter here A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Warning: This story contains details of extreme violence and reference to suicide. Four Russian soldiers have exposed the horror and brutality of conditions on their side of the front lines in Ukraine, with two men telling the BBC they saw soldiers being executed on the spot for refusing orders. One man told a documentary team he saw a soldier executed on the order of his commander, who was made a "Hero of Russia" in 2024. "I see it - just two metres, three metres... click, clack, bang," he said. Another soldier, from a different unit, says he saw his commander shoot four men himself. "I knew them," he says of the soldiers executed. "I remember one of them screaming 'Don't shoot, I'll do anything!'" One of them also says he saw 20 bodies of fellow soldiers lying in a pit after being "zeroed" by comrades. The term "zero" is Russian military slang for executing your own. In the documentary, The Zero Line: Inside Russia's War, men give detailed accounts about how they were tortured for refusing to take part in assaults they describe as verging on suicide missions. Russian troops call these attacks "meat storms" as waves of men are sent across the front line relentlessly to try and wear down Ukrainian forces. For the first time, the BBC believes, Russian soldiers from the front line say on the record how they witnessed commanders ordering executions of their own men. One of the men, whose job was to identify and count dead soldiers, provided detailed lists showing that he is the sole survivor from a group of 79 men he was mobilised with. Because he refused to go to the front line, he says he was tortured and urinated on. Others in his unit who refused would be electrocuted, starved and then forced into meat storms unarmed, he says. The four men, who are on the run, told of the horrors they witnessed at an undisclosed location outside Russia. Almost all public opposition to President Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine has been stamped out in Russia. Official casualty numbers are not released by Moscow, but the UK's Ministry of Defence says more than 1.2 million Russian troops have been killed or injured since the full-scale invasion on 24 February 2022. The Russian government says its armed forces "operate with utmost restraint, as far as possible under the conditions of a high-intensity conflict, treating their personnel with maximum care". "Information regarding alleged violations and crimes is duly investigated," it added. "We are unable to independently verify the accuracy or authenticity of the information you have provided," it said. The detailed first-hand testimony from all four men also verifies reports of a breakdown of law and order on the Russian front line. Ilya, the soldier who identified and counted the dead, is one of the men who says he saw comrades being killed by commanders. Before the war, the 35-year-old taught children with special needs and autism in Kungur, in the Ural Mountains. Then in May 2024, police turned up at his parents' house and told him he was being called up. He was mobilised alongside 78 other men, he says, at a recruitment centre in the city of Perm. "Nearly everyone was drunk," he says. "Forwards into battle! We'll get Zelensky and raise our flag!" he recalls them shouting. "I was watching them and thinking 'How did I end up here?' I was so scared." Upon arriving in Ukraine, Ilya says most of the men were sent straight to the front line. He says he did not want to shoot or kill anyone, and ended up at a command post. Conditions were brutal, and he says he witnessed four people being shot at point-blank range by a commander - one in Panteleimonivka, and three in Novoazovsk, both in Russian-occupied Donetsk in eastern Ukraine - because they had fled the front line and refused to return. "The saddest thing is that I knew them. I remember one of them screaming 'Don't shoot, I'll do anything!' but he [the commander] zeroed them anyway," Ilya says. Zeroing is usually carried out as punishment for refusing orders, and acts as a means of intimidation for others who may be thinking of doing the same, the men told us. "Your fate depended on your commander. The commander is on the radio: 'Zero this one, zero that one,'" Ilya says. Executions of soldiers who refused orders were not confined to Ilya's unit. "Of course they kill their own men, it's a normal thing," says Dima. Before the war, the 34-year-old lived with his wife and daughter and worked in Moscow as a dishwasher repairman. In October 2022, he says he was walking between jobs when a group of police called him over. "They just see my passport, do something on their laptop and tell me 'if you don't go to army you are go to jail,'" he recalls in English. Dima says he didn't want to kill anyone so, despite having no medical experience, he joined a paramedic unit. Later, he was moved to a brigade where he had to evacuate wounded soldiers from the front line. It was here, in the 25th Brigade, that Dima says he saw his fellow soldiers executed on the order of his commander. "I see it - just two metres, three metres. Just murders, just click, clack, bang. It's not a drama, it's not a movie, it's real life," he says. Dima's commander, Alexei Ksenofontov, was awarded the Gold Star, the highest state medal, and made a "Hero of Russia" in 2024. But Ksenofontov has been denounced by families of men who died in his unit. In a joint letter in January 2025, they appealed to Putin directly to look into allegations of brutality in his unit. "They defended our Motherland with honor and pride!!! But in reality, they found themselves in the gang of these commanders, who received awards for tens of thousands of dead and missing!" the letter reads. "And they continue to exterminate our men! Feeling their impunity!" Dima calls Ksenofontov a "butcher". "He give too many orders for killing soldiers, too much blood on his hands, too much." Dima also describes how he saw bodies of 20 men, who had arrived at his base the previous night, lying in a ditch having been shot. He says he spoke to several of the men, all ex-convicts, before witnessing them being taken away the following morning. As a medic, the dead were routinely reported to Dima, and he says he was informed that these men had been shot dead by a commander and their bank cards taken. "Twenty lads were brought to us. They just took their bank cards and killed them," he recalls. "It's not a problem to write off someone. You just make up a report." Dima says he was told the bank cards had been taken by commanders. The BBC documentary also hears from another former soldier - a senior staff officer, who says he served in the Russian military for 17 years. The former officer, whom we are not naming, says he spoke to a man who had helped kill a group of high-ranking officers. The man said he had been part of a "liquidation squad sent to finish any survivors", the former officer recalls. "I've never seen anything like this during all my years of service." All four men told us in graphic detail about the dreaded meat storm missions - part of the Russian military's wider "meat grinder" tactic on the Ukrainian battlefields. The storms are so deadly, they are likened to suicide missions. "I saw them [commanders] send wave after wave, throwing men like meat at the Ukrainians, so they run out of ammo and drones and another wave can reach their objective," says another former soldier, Denis. Every day in 2025, an estimated 900-1,500 Russians were killed or wounded in Ukraine, according to the UK Ministry of Defence. Dima explains how the storms work in practice. "You send three guys, then another three. It didn't work out, send 10. It didn't work out with 10, send 50," he says. "Eventually you will break through. That's the logic of the military. "We had 200 dead in three days. On our regiment's first meat storm they broke us, our regiment was destroyed in just three days," he says. Dima then shows a video, uploaded to social media in October 2023, of mothers and wives of men killed in his unit speaking out against the huge losses. One woman can be heard saying: "Our men were ordered to advance armed with only machine guns and shovels." Another says: "There are terrible losses. Our men are being slaughtered." Those who are not killed for refusing a storm often face dire and dehumanising consequences, Ilya says. He shows a video on Telegram of men from his unit in Panteleimonivka in Donetsk. "Let's feed the animals," a man says, before pulling up a lid to show three men crouching in a pit. "Oh, are you hungry? You want to be fed?" the man filming asks, before one of the men raises his head and nods, holding out his hands while some dry grains are poured into the pit. "Look how it's eating," the man filming says, as the man in the pit eats the grain. Some men would be "starved for days" and electrocuted, says Ilya, before being sent into meat storms unarmed. He personally was tortured, he says, after refusing to take part in one storm. "They tied me to a tree, hit me with a baton a couple of times and put a gun to my head. "I don't know how to put it, they went to the toilet on me. The commander told everyone 'We've got a new toilet'. I was tied up for half a day." After being untied, Ilya attempted to take his own life. Denis, who says he once secretly brought food and water to soldiers in a pit, shows the documentary team a video of an accused deserter being urinated on, which the BBC has not been able to independently verify. "It's a humiliation of a person's honour and dignity. In the Russian army this has become the norm," he says. "It's illegal but no-one is punished for it. On the contrary, guys are even encouraged to do it." Denis, 27, also shows a photo that he says was taken shortly after two of his front teeth were knocked out by one of his superiors, because he had told them he didn't want to search for a missing drone. "It's terrible, I just had to carry on." Dima was eventually promoted, despite having said he did not want to become an officer. He shows a photo of the ceremony where he was commissioned. After his promotion, he would not send his men on a meat storm, he says. "I refused to do it. I wouldn't have to go forward myself, but I couldn't just give them the order." It led to his arrest by military police and him being taken to Zaitsevo, a makeshift prison, Dima says. "[There] they are torturing me with electric shock," he recalls, adding that the power of the first shock made him defecate himself. He was tortured every day for 72 days, he says. "Just torture only, every day with stone face. No emotions, it's crazy," he says, referring to his torturers. All of the men we spoke to are now outside of Russia, but have mental scars from the front lines in Ukraine. "I have dreams. I see [a] forest full of dead bodies, just smashed people with faces, dirty white mouths full of blood. The smell… it doesn't smell, it tastes," Dima says. "I'm a criminal, and nobody cares - my crime is just I don't want to kill," he says. "In Russian army, too many guys who don't need this war, who hate commanders, who hate Putin, who hate our system, and they need to break us." Ilya says he loves his country, "but not what Putin has done to it". "They can break anyone there, it doesn't matter if you're strong or not. "They almost broke me, but not completely." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
What is it like negotiating with the Russians over the war in Ukraine? It is a question many are interested in knowing the answer to following several recent rounds of peace talks, which have so far appeared to bear little fruit four years after Russia's full-scale invasion. Another round of the US-mediated discussions is likely to take place in Geneva later this week. Ahead of it, the BBC has spoken to Sergiy Kyslytsya, a member of Ukrainian President Zelensky's delegation, who has taken part in the recent  military-to-military discussions. According to Kyslytsya, these dealings are business-like and generally free of the sort of political and historical grandstanding seen elsewhere by Moscow. "The military has a better understanding of what is going on in the battlefield," he told me when we met in the presidential palace on Monday morning. "It's another thing whether they [the Russians] are capable, or not, of reporting [back] directly…without cooking or changing the information," he added. It is not an easy thing to try to end a war. The nature of the battlefield in eastern Ukraine - where thousands of drones patrol and kill over a huge so-called "grey zone" between the two sides, while 200,000 Ukrainian civilians still live in the "fortress belt" cities of the Donbas - makes the technical business of disengagement highly complex. "You have to have a clear set of rules and protocols," Kyslytsya said, "and a way to verify and monitor." Much of this work, he said, is complete, thanks in part to the close involvement of US officials, including General Alexus Grynkewich, Nato's top commander in Europe, and Dan Driscoll, Secretary of the Army. It's obviously not in Kyiv's interest to criticise representatives of the Trump administration, but when Kyslytsya compliments the US delegation for its efforts, he sounds genuine. "We have to credit the Americans for their commitment and their patience," he says, "because they sit in the meetings non-stop. They don't only observe…they put questions and they listen to our answers." Kyslytsya was equally positive about the roles played by Donald Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, whom he described as "not a novice", and billionaire all-purpose envoy, Steve Witkoff, whom he described as "a much wiser person than the caricature image you see in the media". The US, Kyslytsya said, will play a key role in monitoring any future ceasefire, with resources including satellite and other forms of high-tech monitoring. "We need someone who will play the role of adjudication, because if there is a violation there should be a third party that is solid [and] authoritative." For eight years before Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022, this monitoring role was played by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe - a group whose limited resources and lack of enforcement mechanisms rendered it largely incapable of preventing an escalation. "It was quite an achievement [for them] just to have two UAVs flying over the territory," Kyslytsya said. "It's kind of the Flintstones era compared to what we have today." In comparison, recent reports suggest that as many as 12,000 drones are operating over the single city of Pokrovsk at any one time. I asked Kyslytsya, who is also a former UN ambassador, how he managed to sit across the table from emissaries from a leader in the Kremlin who has been willing to sacrifice more than a million of his own men to subjugate Ukraine. He told me he'd had years of practice. "I saw much worse. I spent five years in New York, three of them before the full-scale invasion. I would sit in the room with the enemy on a regular basis." One evening is seared in his memory: 23 February 2022. In the middle of an emergency UN Security Council meeting, convened to discuss the urgent crisis in Ukraine, the ambassador got word that his country was under attack. At the same time, seven time zones to the east in Kyiv, I remember hearing the first distant explosions as Russia's all-out assault on Ukraine began. Amid scenes of agonising drama, Kyslytsya tried to get Russia's ambassador, Vassily Nebenzia, to call his boss, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, to seek assurances that Russian troops would not invade. "I've already said everything I know today," Nebenzia replied, according to Kyslytsya. "I'm not going to wake Minister Lavrov at this time." Everyone's lives changed at that moment. Kyslytsya stayed at the UN for another three years before returning to Kyiv. If the delegations meet again in Geneva on Thursday, he'll be there, still thrashing out the contours and mechanics of a ceasefire but waiting all the while for the most important part of the jigsaw to fall into place. "The war could be stopped by just one call of one person to his military chief of staff," he said. "But apparently, the Kremlin dictator [Russian President Vladimir Putin] is not up to stopping the war for the time being." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two Ukrainian mothers who fled the war with Russia say they are still coming to terms with their new life in the UK four years on. Maryna and Anastasiia found new homes with their families in East Yorkshire in 2022 after Russia launched a full-scale invasion on 24 February of that year. Anastasiia fled with her five-year-old daughter to live with her mother in Hull, unsure what the future would hold. "I felt lost," she explained. "You behave as if nothing happened for a long time and then the understanding comes of what happened to you. "I became more silent. I would say this is the outcome. I learnt how to navigate uncertainty." Despite the upheaval, she said her daughter was "a happy child". With a smile, she said: "My mission is completed in this part of the story. I arranged our life so she could be settled and feel happy." Since being in the UK, Anastasiia has collaborated with Hull Truck Theatre to create a cross-cultural project with Ukrainian children and teenagers. Yet, despite the progress, Anastasiia, whose twin brother served for more than a year on the frontline in Ukraine, said events back home meant she could never be fully content. "I don't live my whole life in the UK mentally. I don't know whether people can feel pure happiness in such circumstances, but I try to, sometimes I succeed," she said. Russia's full-scale invasion began when Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered up to 200,000 soldiers into Ukraine. In an interview with the BBC, Ukraine's President, Volodymyr Zelensky, explained why he had rejected the latest ceasefire deal demanded by Putin, insisting the Russian leader had already started World War Three. Maryna, who lives in Welton with her husband and two children, has adapted but, like Anastasiia, cannot put the events of the past four years behind her. She said: "Since the war started, I understand that sometimes we can't make decisions in our life. "When the war broke out, we were in our flat in Kyiv and it was 05:30 in the morning. We just heard some explosions and I couldn't believe that it was happening. "It was terrible and very scary." Maryna and her two children moved to the UK in April 2022 to live with a family in South Cave after finding out about the Homes for Ukraine Scheme. She said her children "couldn't believe" they were fleeing the country and leaving everything behind to stay with people they did not know at the time. "I didn't have any other options to keep them safe," Maryna explained. Her husband was not able to join them in the UK until June 2023 and Maryna said she spent the time wondering if she would see him again. When reunited at the airport a year later, she said she would "always remember this moment". "It was a complete surprise for my children when they saw him. They cried and they laughed," she said. The family have managed to find their independence and are now renting a house in Welton. Maryna has visited Ukraine twice but said she remained "very worried" about the rest of her family who are still living in the country. "It's not a nice place to go at the moment. Everything is different and scary," she added. Listen to highlights from Hull and East Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A vigil and evensong service has been held to mark the fourth anniversary of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. About 150 people gathered in Ipswich town centre on Sunday 22 February, before walking together to Ipswich Minster for a service including prayers and music in Ukrainian. Among them was Marharyta Romanets, who came to Suffolk from Kharkiv, Ukraine's second-largest city, less than 20 miles from the Russian border. She said: "Our soul is still there, my family is still in there, all my friends... we are trying to do our best for supporting our country from here." Russia's full-scale invasion began on 24 February 2022, exacerbating a humanitarian crisis that has been ongoing in eastern Ukraine since 2014. Since the start of the conflict, 1,700 people have resettled in Suffolk under the Homes for Ukraine programme, administered by the county council. Alina Dolgopolova now lives in Woodbridge. She said: "I feel very touched so many people came today to support us. "We feel that some certain countries in Europe, they support Ukraine in a big way, although we're still struggling with this war. "Ukraine is still a shield against tyranny, against aggression in the 21st Century... and it's very important to feel that kind of help, especially on the anniversary of the full-scale invasion." David Jacobs' maternal grandmother was Ukrainian. Since 2022, he has made 19 trips delivering aid to the front line and assisting in recovering casualties. "It's wonderful to see the kind of resilience of the Ukrainians, you know their incredible can-do attitude and of course they're very appreciative of the aid," he said. "But obviously it's terrible seeing all the destruction and the suffering, now the weariness of people. "Its so unnecessary and such a waste of life and of resources, but they're not going to give up because if they do they lose their country and they're fighting for their families." Follow Suffolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. A random act of kindness sparks a campaign on social media to create hundreds of hospital care bags. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Politicians visiting stadiums and discussing football is nothing new, but what use does it have for them? A pile of clothes on a hob caught fire when the cooker was accidently switched on, say firefighters. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky continues to send out a firm message of defiance. When we met this weekend in the government headquarters in Kyiv, he said that far from losing, Ukraine would end the war victorious. He was firmly against paying the price for a ceasefire deal demanded by President Vladimir Putin, which is withdrawing from strategic ground that Russia has failed to capture despite sacrificing tens of thousands of soldiers. Putin, Zelensky told me, has already started World War Three, and the only answer was intense military and economic pressure to force him to step back. "I believe that Putin has already started it. The question is how much territory he will be able to seize and how to stop him... Russia wants to impose on the world a different way of life and change the lives people have chosen for themselves." What about Russia's demand for Ukraine to hand over the 20% of the eastern region of Donetsk that it still holds - a line of towns Ukraine calls "fortress cities" - as well as more land in the southern regions of Kherson and Zaporizhzhia? Isn't that, I asked, a reasonable request if it produces a ceasefire? "I see this differently. I don't look at it simply as land. I see it as abandonment - weakening our positions, abandoning hundreds of thousands of our people who live there. That is how I see it. And I am sure that this 'withdrawal' would divide our society." But isn't it a good price to pay if that satisfies Putin? Do you think it would satisfy him? "It would probably satisfy him for a while... he needs a pause... but once he recovers, our European partners say it could take three to five years. In my opinion, he could recover in no more than a couple of years. Where would he go next? We do not know, but that he would want to continue [the war] is a fact." I met Zelensky in a conference room inside the heavily guarded government enclave in a well-to-do corner of central Kyiv. In the interview he spoke mostly in Ukrainian. You get a sense of the weight of leadership carried by Zelensky from the diligence of his security guards. Visiting any head of state requires rigorous checks. But entering the presidential buildings in Kyiv takes the process to a level I have rarely experienced before. It is not surprising in a country at war, with a president who has already been targeted by Russia. Despite all that, the man who started as an entertainer, who won the Ukrainian version of Strictly Come Dancing in 2006, and played the role of an unexpected president of Ukraine in a TV comedy, before becoming the real-life president of Ukraine, seems to be remarkably resilient. US President Donald Trump said on the eve of the most recent ceasefire talks in Geneva that "Ukraine better come to the table fast". He continues to default to putting more pressure on Ukraine than on Russia. Western diplomats have indicated since last summer that Trump agrees with Putin that territorial concessions from Ukraine to Russia are the key to the ceasefire Trump wants, ideally before this coming summer. Plenty of analysts outside the White House also judge that Ukraine cannot win the war and, without making concessions to Moscow, will lose it. I asked Zelensky whether Trump and the others had a point. "Where are you now?" Zelensky asked in return. "Today you are in Kyiv, you are in the capital of our homeland, you are in Ukraine. I am very grateful for this. Will we lose? Of course not, because we are fighting for Ukraine's independence." Zelensky has often said that Ukraine can win, but what would victory look like? Of course, he said, victory meant restoring normal lives for Ukrainians and ending the killing. But the wider view of victory he presented was all about a global threat that he says comes from Putin. "I believe that stopping Putin today and preventing him from occupying Ukraine is a victory for the whole world. Because Putin will not stop at Ukraine." You are not saying that victory is getting all the land back, are you? "We'll do it. That is absolutely clear. It is only a matter of time. To do it today would mean losing a huge number of people - millions of people - because the [Russian] army is large, and we understand the cost of such steps. You would not have enough people, you would be losing them. And what is land without people? Honestly, nothing." "And we also don't have enough weapons. That depends not just on us, but on our partners. So as of now that's not possible but returning to the just borders of 1991 [the year Ukraine declared its independence, precipitating the final collapse of the Soviet Union] without a doubt, is not only a victory, it's justice. Ukraine's victory is the preservation of our independence, and a victory of justice for the whole world is the return of all our lands." A year ago, Zelensky visited the White House and received a reception one senior Western diplomat described to me as a pre-planned public "diplomatic mugging" from Donald Trump and his Vice-President JD Vance. Their argument, in the presence of the world's media, was watched by millions around the world. Trump, just inaugurated as president for the second time, was sending the strongest possible signal that the era of support Zelensky and Ukraine had relied on from President Joe Biden was over. Nato members were already on notice from the new administration. Vance had just got back from shattering Western European illusions about the strength of the trans-Atlantic alliance. Since then, reportedly coached by Britain's National Security Adviser Jonathan Powell among others, Zelensky has avoided public confrontations with Trump. The US president has stopped almost all shipments of military aid to Ukraine. But the US still provides vital intelligence, and European countries are spending billions buying weapons from the Americans to give to Ukraine. I asked Ukraine's president about Trump's often contradictory statements, recalling that among the untruths he has uttered is the accusation that Zelensky is a dictator who started the war - a precise echo of claims made by Vladimir Putin. "I am not a dictator, and I didn't start the war, that's it." But can you trust Trump? If you extract a security guarantee from him, I asked, would he keep his word? He is after all a man who changes his mind. "It is not only President Trump, we're talking about America. We are all presidents for the appropriate terms. We want guarantees for 30 years for example. Political elites will change, leaders will change." He meant that US security guarantees needed approval from Congress in Washington DC to make them watertight. "They will be voted on in Congress for a reason. It's not just presidents. Congress is needed. Because the presidents change, but institutions stay." In other words, Donald Trump might be unreliable, but he will not be there for ever. Zelensky says those security guarantees would have to be in place before he could consider another US demand - for Ukraine to hold a general election by the summer, echoing another Russian talking point that Zelensky is an illegitimate president. Trump has not demanded elections in Russia, where Putin became leader for the first time on the last day of the 20th Century. Zelensky said he had not decided whether to stand again, whenever an election is held: "I might run and might not." Elections were due in 2024, but they could not be held under martial law that was introduced after Russia's full-scale invasion. Holding postponed elections, Zelensky said, was technically possible if they had time to change the law to allow them to happen. But he needed security guarantees for Ukraine first. He went on to raise so many potential problems about holding an election with millions of Ukrainians abroad as refugees and significant tracts of the country occupied by Russia that I suggested that in reality he was against the idea. "If this is a condition for ending the war, let's do it. I said, 'honestly, you constantly raise the issue of elections'. I told the partners, 'you need to decide one thing: you want to get rid of me or you want to hold elections? If you want to hold elections, (even if you are not ready to tell me honestly even now), then hold these elections honestly. Hold them in a way that the Ukrainian people will recognise, first of all. And you yourself must recognise that these are legitimate elections'." Volodymyr Zelensky has opponents and harsh critics here in Ukraine. His government was rocked last autumn by a corruption scandal that led to the departure of his closest adviser. But Zelensky, with a new team, still commands approval ratings that most leaders in Western Europe can only dream about. He has irritated his allies at times with constant demands for more and better equipment. One of the accusations directed at him in the Oval Office by Trump and Vance a year ago was that he was not sufficiently grateful. The latest item on his list is permission to manufacture American weapons under licence, including Patriot air defence missiles. "Today the issue is air defence. This is the most difficult problem. Unfortunately, our partners still do not grant licences for us to produce systems ourselves, for example, Patriot systems, or even missiles for the systems we already have. So far, we have not achieved success in this." "I don't know. I have no answer." At the end of the interview, he switched from Ukrainian to English. Given everything he had said, I asked him whether we needed to get ready for an even longer war in Ukraine. "No, no, no, it's two parallel tracks... you are playing chess with a lot of leaders, not with Russia. There is not one right way. You have to choose a lot of parallel steps, parallel directions. And one of these parallel ways will, I think, bring success. For us, success is to stop Putin." But Vladimir Putin isn't going to end this war, is he? Unless he's under massive pressure and he doesn't seem to be. "Yes and no. We will see. Yes and no. He doesn't want, but doesn't want doesn't mean he will not. God bless. God bless, we will be successful. Thank you." And with that, he posed for photographs, shook hands with the BBC team, and strode out of the room. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Saturday school set up to support children who have fled the war in Ukraine has marked the fourth anniversary of the conflict with prayers and song. St Mary's Ukrainian School has now grown to 15 sites nationwide and has been helping 3,000 children celebrate their language and identity, as well as provide support with trauma and building new lives in a new country. A special event filled with performances and tributes was held as the Northampton community came together to remember their homeland. "It's sad to be honest to have this event... four years of the war and still the same situation - it's horrible," said parent Khrystyna Protsyk. "People's small children have died for nothing." Russia's full-scale invasion began on 24 February 2022, exacerbating a humanitarian crisis that has been ongoing in eastern Ukraine since 2014. Since then, about 5.9m refugees are recorded globally, with about 264,000 Ukrainians living in the UK. Protsyk said the area where she lived in Ukraine was under constant threat of missile attack and she now felt safe and grateful to have settled in Northampton with her child. "It's very important to take part in today's event as on this date four years ago our life just divided into two worlds: life before and life after," she said. "No one expected what happened with the war - it's important not to forget this horrible time, which is continuous in our country. "Every day we are praying for peace." Lisa is one of the 55 children who attends the Northampton centre, which has helped her both to remember her heritage and get accustomed to living in England. "My life here started off hard because you needed to learn the language fast to be able to communicate [and] find friends," she said. "It takes a bit of shifting but I'm really enjoying life here." Many of the children still have family in Ukraine. Their families felt it was crucial to give them a place to practise their language skills and come together with other children from their displaced community. The school is a verified education centre and the curriculum has been approved by the Ukrainian government. Students undergo formal exams, which means their results are recognised by Ukrainian schools to allow for continuity in their education when it is safe to return. Ukrainian language classes are held, alongside literature, history and music lessons as well as dance and art clubs. The centre is run by a team of education staff, who have all moved from Ukraine due to the outbreak of the war. Viktoriia Sukharnyk, from the school, said the centre had helped students and "supported them to integrate into society, but without losing our identity". Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. Toby Hayward, now 27, says attending a SEND school was his "foundation to where I am now". A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Its website says it is not taking any bookings on Saturday "due to unforeseen circumstances". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. The EA says immediate steps were taken to contain the issue, but it cannot confirm whether any personal data has been affected. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A 23-year-old female police officer has been killed and 25 people injured in what Ukrainian officials have called a terror attack in the western city of Lviv. Two homemade explosive devices detonated after police crews responded to a reported break-in shortly after midnight on Sunday, the National Police of Ukraine said. The devices were planted in waste bins, it added. President Volodymyr Zelensky confirmed "an individual suspected of carrying out the terrorist attack" had been detained. Lviv Mayor Andriy Sadovyi said she was a Ukrainian woman. The police later said the 33-year-old suspect had made and planted the explosives on the "instruction" of an agent of Russia's special services. The victim of the attack was named as Viktoria Shpylka. "She was only 23 years old and had begun her service at the start of the full-scale invasion of the Kherson region," the police wrote on Telegram on Sunday morning. Police said the first blast occurred after a police car arrived at the scene of the reported break-in at a shop in the city centre. "Later, when a second crew arrived, another explosion went off," it added. Eleven people were admitted to hospital, six of whom were law enforcement officers in serious conditions. Interior Minister Ihor Klymenko said police and the Security Service of Ukraine had detained the suspect, a resident of the north-western Rivne region. "We are identifying other persons involved in committing this crime," he wrote on Telegram. Meanwhile, the regional prosecutor's office said it had started an investigation into the "act of terrorism that led to grave consequences". Elsewhere, Ukraine faced another night of overnight Russian strikes ahead of the fourth anniversary of Moscow's full-scale invasion on Tuesday. Kyiv said its air defences had countered 50 Russian missiles and nearly 300 drones overnight. The attacks targeted the energy sector, residential buildings, and railways, Zelensky said. At least one person was killed in the Kyiv region, top local official Mykola Kalashnyk said, while a woman and a child were taken to hospital with injuries. The latest aerial attack comes two days before the fourth anniversary of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. The invasion ordered by President Vladimir Putin has become the biggest war in Europe since World War Two, with hundreds of thousands of military casualties -killed, wounded and missing - believed to be on each side. Western military experts estimate that Russian combat losses have been much higher than Ukraine's. Moscow currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory, including the southern Crimea peninsula it annexed in 2014. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Former Prime Minister Boris Johnson says that the UK and its allies should deploy non-combat troops to Ukraine right now, to "flip a switch" in Russian President Vladimir Putin's head. Speaking exclusively to Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg alongside the former head of the military, Adm Sir Tony Radakin, Johnson said troops should be sent to peaceful regions in non-fighting roles. He said: "If we can have a plan for boots on the ground after the war, after Putin has condescended to have a ceasefire, then why not do it now?" The UK government is currently working with its allies to plan a "coalition of the willing" to provide forces to preserve peace and stability in Ukraine, but only if there is a deal to end the war. Speaking just days before the fourth anniversary of the war, Johnson, who was prime minister at the time of the invasion, also said the conflict could have been prevented if Western allies had paid more attention to Putin's increasing aggression and his annexation of Crimea in 2014. Johnson and Sir Tony recounted the moment when Russia invaded Ukraine on 24 February 2022, and the early days of the war, when the decision to support President Volodymyr Zelensky was made. Despite extensive UK support, they agreed that Western allies had been too slow and cautious in providing support to Ukraine. In the past four years, allies have often taken months to agree to sending the weapons that President Zelensky has requested. Sir Tony described the allies' approach as "incrementalism" and said Ukraine felt it was "too slow and it's deeply frustrating - these tensions have existed all the way through". Watch the interview in full on Sunday on Laura Kuenssberg on Sunday at 09:00 GMT on BBC One and on the BBC News channel at 20:30 GMT on Saturday Johnson said that the caution had cost lives. "We've always delayed needlessly," he said. "We've then ended up giving the Ukrainians what they have been asking for, and actually it's always served to their advantage and to the disadvantage of Putin. "I mean, the one person who suffers from escalation is Putin." He added: "If we can have boots on the ground after the war, after Putin has condescended to have a ceasefire, then why not do it now? "Just to make this point that it is up to the Ukrainians, and these people wouldn't be there in a war-fighting capacity, right?" Asked if he meant that UK and other European allies' forces should go to safe parts of Ukraine now to "flip a switch", he said: "Yes, I think, you know, if we are willing to do it in the context of a ceasefire, which of course puts all the initiative, all the power in Putin's hands, why not do it now? "There is no logical reason that I can see why we shouldn't send peaceful ground forces there to show our support, our constitutional support for a free, independent Ukraine. "That is a political thing. It's about whether Ukraine is a free country or not. If it's a vassal state of Russia, which is what Putin wants, then obviously it's up to Putin to decide who comes to his country. If it's not, then it's up to the Ukrainians." Putin would most likely view the presence of international troops, on a peacekeeping mission or not, as a major provocation. In September last year, after the announcement of the proposed "reassurance force", Putin said any troops deployed to Ukraine would be "legitimate targets". On Sunday, Defence Secretary John Healey said he would send British troops to Ukraine once the warring countries had reached a peace deal. "I want to be the Defence Secretary who deploys British troops to Ukraine – because this will mean that this war is finally over," he wrote in the Telegraph. "2026 must be the year this terrible war ends." The defence secretary did not vow to send non-combat troops while the conflict continued, as Johnson suggested, underlining instead the level of UK military aid delivered to Ukraine and sanctions imposed on Russia. In response to Johnson's comments, a Ministry of Defence spokesperson said: "We are proud of UK leadership on Ukraine - supporting the fight today and working to secure the peace tomorrow. "It's why this government is providing the highest ever level of military support, including a recent half-billion-pound air defence package just last week, accelerating £200m for the UK military to prepare for any Ukraine deployment, and working with over 30 nations through the UK-led Coalition of the Willing." Johnson said that the failure to confront Putin over the annexation of Crimea in 2014, when David Cameron was the UK prime minister, was "tragic". And when asked if the UK and Western allies had enabled Putin's invasion by not taking his aggression seriously enough, Johnson said: "I do think that. The failure to do anything in Crimea was tragic. "I think Putin was emboldened by a Western failure in Syria to punish Assad for using chemical weapons. "I think Putin was further emboldened in February 2022 by what he'd seen in Afghanistan, and a sort of general sense that the West was on the back foot. "He'd seen those appalling pictures of Americans being forced to flee Afghanistan and the UK pulling out as well, and that really did embolden him." He went on to say that "the general ambiguity of the Western position" had harmed Ukraine, adding: "If we'd had clarity and simplicity about Ukraine, rather than endless fudge and obscurity, we could have saved that, we could have prevented that invasion." Johnson, who was foreign secretary and prime minister during some of that period, admitted regret for not having taken more action. "I do think we should have done more," he said. "The real problem is, with Ukraine, that Putin does not yet believe, or he has not yet been convinced, that the West regards it as an overwhelming strategic objective for Ukraine to be a free and independent European country. "And until he sees the evidence that that is our determination, I think he's just going to keep going. "That's the problem we're in. It's that fundamental lack of resolve." On defence spending, Sir Tony called on the government to "resolve" its promise to spend 3.5% of national income on defence by 2035, a promise made at the Nato summit last year. He said: "We made, the prime minister made, an international commitment. "The reason for that commitment was because there is a war in Europe. Russia is weak, but dangerous. "We are safe as a country at the moment: we are a nuclear power, we're a member of Nato, we have America as our principal ally. "But we need to invest in each of those in order to assure our nation that we will continue to be safe in the 2030s. That's why we had a defence review. "That's why Nato galvanised around an operational plan and the need for more spending, and that has to be resolved. "We have made that commitment. Nato is challenging us. Where is our plan?" As the war in Ukraine approaches its grim anniversary, it was striking to hear the former prime minister say, with regret, that the bloody conflict could have been prevented in the first place, claiming it was failures of the West, including times when he was foreign secretary and then in Number 10, that emboldened Putin. Essentially, Boris Johnson's suggestion is that nearly a decade of foreign policy mistakes led to what's happening now. That claim will be argued about for decades to come. But his eye-catching suggestion to send UK and allies' troops to Ukraine goes further than any suggestion currently being made by the UK or its partners in what Sir Keir Starmer called a "coalition of the willing" in our studio almost a year ago. The former head of the military, sitting alongside Johnson, was one of the architects of that plan, preparing forces to be ready to go and support Ukraine if, and only if, there is a peace deal. Back in 2022, Europe pledged support to Ukraine, but said sending troops was beyond what they were prepared to do. Switching the focus of the "coalition of the willing" to sending troops now would be a hugely significant political move. But it's not impossible that allies could discuss alternatives such as creating a safe zone in the west of the country or opening up Lviv airport, as a precursor to a ceasefire. Johnson's suggestion seems borne out of his own frustration, particularly given his ongoing links with Ukraine, that the allies' response has been too halting - enough support so that Ukraine can keep fighting, not enough to bring an end to the war. Both Johnson and Radakin were eager to emphasise that, in their view, President Zelensky has already made concessions, and that the only way to bring peace is to intensify the pressure on the Kremlin, economically, and militarily. The former prime minister told me it was "deluded" to believe that the Russian leader wants peace, and he had told the White House as much. But as the loss of life on both sides continues, it is not clear how much further Western allies are willing to go, or how much Vladimir Putin is ready to listen. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. The UK government announces further air defence systems will be sent to countries in the region along with troops to operate them. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Russian bombs that began falling on Ukraine on 24 February 2022 turned tens of thousands of Ukrainian civilians into soldiers overnight. Many who had never held a weapon before rushed to take up arms. In the four years that have followed, as the war has ground on and the initial patriotic fervour has died down, thousands more have been conscripted. For men, service is open-ended and applies to those aged 25-65. Women can serve on a contractual basis. Speaking from mud-soaked dugouts, drone command centres, frontline observation posts and rehabilitation centres, seven Ukrainian soldiers have told the BBC about the civilians they once were, the soldiers they have become – and the toll the war has taken on them. Not long ago, Olena worked as a nightclub administrator in Prague. "It felt like everything was ahead of me - and there was plenty of time," she says. Then, she realised if she didn't protect her future, she would remain stuck in the past. In December 2024, she returned to Ukraine, joined the army and became a pilot. "I look at the 'before' photo and see myself calmer," Olena says. "More naive. Everything became different. I became different." "My 'past' life was filled with a constant chase: to make it in time, to achieve, to build, to earn, to prove. Now, everything is simpler: what matters is that my brothers-in-arms are alive after enemy strikes." The difficult moments, Olena says, are not the explosions or the danger: "Sometimes the hardest thing is the silence after the news of losses." She finds strength in thinking of her family, away from the front lines, who "survive a week without light and heating, but don't lose the hope for a better future". While the fighting continues, she can't imagine another life: "My place is here as long as the enemy is in my house." Like the majority of Ukrainians, on 24 February 2022 Oleh was "confused, and scared". Some ran towards the borders; others, to the enlistment offices. "I froze, trying to master my fear," says Oleh, a publishing graduate and former NGO worker. "I am not a military man, I have never seen myself like that, and I did not understand how ordinary people could stand in the way of such a powerful enemy like Russia." But the next month, Oleh - who loved role-playing board games and wrote fiction - joined the army. As a soldier, he says, "you are constantly in a small room in your head, the space of which is getting smaller every time. Outside the window, others are living… while there is no handle on the door on your side to get out." The war has jolted him. "Before, it was important for me to help others find their way, to become strong, self-confident. Now I understand that the technique of positive thinking does not save you from armed thugs." Getting rid of them, Oleh says, is a way of helping not with words but deeds. "You can't save everyone. But even your unsuccessful attempts will matter." When she finished school, Anastasia didn't know what she wanted to be, so she took up a job as a barista. Then she became fascinated by drones - the nimble, deadly aircraft that have become centrepieces of the war in Ukraine - and in March 2025 joined the army. "I first held the position of unmanned systems duty officer, and then became an FPV (first person view) operator," she says. Since then, she has found that being a woman in the armed forces "was and still is the most difficult thing". "You constantly have to prove you are worthy of doing the job, and on an equal footing with others." In the 11 months since signing up, Anastasia says she has learned about happiness. "Time with loved ones, love, delicious food," she lists. "Being close to your family. Not being afraid that you won't wake up tomorrow." "⁠Before, I didn't have a clear concept of values in this life due to my age," she says. "Now, I feel completely different." Before the full-scale invasion started, Roman was one of Ukraine's top bio-engineers, trained to create 3D models for facial reconstruction surgeries. After 2022, he volunteered as a medic, and was later mobilised. "If the war hadn't happened I may have moved to Copenhagen. I worked there a lot, with the best surgeons," he says. Instead, he has spent the last years in dugouts around Ukraine. Now, from his position in the north of the country he tries "not to think about the future - I live here and now". He is a combat medic in an unmanned systems battalion. In a sense, he says, his life is his work - just as it was before he joined the army. For now, there is no end in sight. "I will rest after the war," he laughs. Then he pauses. "No, there'll be lots of reconstruction surgery to be done then. So, maybe, after that." The photo on the left was taken in early 2022 - a few weeks before Viktor took what he says was the most important decision of his life. He had already served four years in the army and moved to Poland, but the afternoon of the start of the Russian invasion he went back to Ukraine: "Not because I wasn't afraid, but because I had no choice." "In these photos, I am young. A little boy," he says now. "I barely remember myself like that anymore. But I remember very clearly who I became, and who the war turned me into." When he shared these photos on social media, thousands of Ukrainian soldiers followed suit: "Our eyes say a lot. There's no need to even spell out the things we have seen or done." Almost all the friends he joined up with have died. "I look at these photos and it's like a different person, but at the same time I'm still me - just someone who didn't know what was ahead. It's probably good that I didn't know." The day of the Russian invasion, Serhii – a civilian with a government job - joined the army. By spring he was one of thousands of Ukrainian soldiers captured by Russia during the siege of the Azovstal steelworks in the coastal city of Mariupol. He was held for over two years and captivity remains the most harrowing experience of his life. "That feeling of being doomed… Out of everything I've done in the army and in life overall, that was the worst. Not having any idea what the future could bring or what would come next." During the long days of the siege he speaks of "a profound reassessment of my values - it felt as if you suddenly start rushing to live". He thought about his life before and after the war and set goals for how he would live if he managed to survive. He is now in rehabilitation and lives with his wife and two children. "If I look at my photo from before the full-scale invasion, I can say only one thing: 'Oh, kid, you have no idea what still awaits you." Before 2022, Kyrilo's life was good. "I had a wife, two children, a house – everything I needed. I had plans." The war, he says, took it all away. Kyrylo was held in captivity in Russia for several weeks in 2022 and watched comrades being abused. "It was hard," he says, "when you can't even stand up to defend them." The return to freedom in Ukraine was no less difficult. "Very often you run into the fact that you're nobody. And for soldiers this happens a lot: while you're fighting, you're something, someone. As soon as you stop - then that's it, you're nobody." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
In the fishing village of Sedanka, in Russia's Far East, life is hard. Most homes lack basic amenities such as running water, indoor toilets and central heating, despite temperatures routinely falling to -10C (14F) during the winter months. Ringed by forest-tundra and bogs, its district centre can only be reached from May to October by river boat or vehicles with tracks, and in winter only by snowmobile or helicopter. There are few local jobs and most villagers survive by fishing and growing their own food. And now almost all of Sedanka's men aged 18 to 55 have gone, according to locals, having joined Russia's war in Ukraine. "It's heartbreaking - so many of our people have been killed," says Natalia, a villager whose name we've changed for her security, in an interview with the BBC World Service. "My sister's husband and my cousins are at the front. In almost every family, someone is fighting." Located on the north-west edge of the Kamchatka Peninsula, near the Sea of Okhotsk, Sedanka is more than 4,300 miles (7,000km) from Ukraine's front lines. The American city of Anchorage, across the ocean, is roughly half that distance. Thirty-nine men from the village signed contracts with Russia to fight in the war from a total population of 258. Of these, 12 have been killed and another seven are missing. "All our men have left for the special military operation," a group of women told the regional governor when he visited in March 2024, using the Kremlin's language for its war in Ukraine. "There is no-one to chop firewood for winter to heat our stoves," they added in an exchange shown on state TV. The BBC, along with Russian news outlet Medizona and volunteer researchers, has so far verified that 40,201 Russian soldiers were killed in 2025. According to our analysis, we estimate that the total number killed in 2025 will reach 80,000, which would be the most deadly year for Russian losses in Ukraine since the full-scale invasion was launched on 24 February 2022. This calculation takes into account obituaries that cite 2025 as the year of death or burial, but we have not yet fully processed or cross-checked. Confirmed deaths for 2024 now stand at 69,362 - roughly comparable to the combined totals for 2022 and 2023 - and the curve has steepened since late 2024. We have confirmed the deaths using official reports and a probate data registry - an official registry of cases after someone dies - as well as newspaper articles, social media posts from relatives or close friends and data from new memorials and graves. In total, the BBC has now identified the names of 186,102 Russian soldiers killed in the war. The true death toll is generally accepted to be much higher, as many deaths on the battlefield are not recorded. Military experts believe our analysis might represent 45-65% of the total, putting the potential number of Russian deaths at between 286,000 and 413,500. Ukraine has also sustained heavy losses. Last month, President Volodymyr Zelensky told French broadcaster France 2 that "officially" 55,000 Ukrainians had been killed on the battlefield. In addition, a "large number of people" are considered officially missing, he said, though he did not give an exact figure. Based on estimates from sources including the UA Losses website, which the BBC has cross-referenced, we estimate that the number of Ukrainians killed is as high as 200,000. Most Russians killed in the war have Slavic surnames. But losses are disproportionately high among small indigenous groups, especially in economically depressed areas of Siberia and the Far East, such as Sedanka. Sedanka is home mainly to Koryaks and Itelmens - indigenous groups who, under wartime rules, can be exempted from mobilisation. Anti-war activist Maria Vyushkova says Russian state TV amplifies stereotypes about indigenous communities being "born warriors" and skilled shooters in order to encourage them to join the war. "Many indigenous communities take pride in that heritage as part of their identity. The Kremlin uses this pride to recruit for war," Vyushkova says. One of the men from Sedanka who joined the conflict was Vladimir Akeev, 45, a hunter and fisherman, who signed a contract with the army in the summer of 2024. Four months later he was killed in combat. Mourners at his funeral in November 2024 were only able to reach the cemetery by snowmobile, and Akeev's coffin arrived on wide wooden sleds. Elsewhere, confirmed losses from indigenous groups include 201 Nenets, 96 Chukchi, 77 Khanty, 30 Koryaks and seven Inuit. As a proportion of males between the ages of 18 and 60, this equates to an estimated 2% of Chukchi, 1.4% of Russian Inuit, 1.32% of Koryaks and 0.8% of Khanty. The BBC's analysis shows that 67% of the dead are from rural areas and small towns - classed as those with populations under 100,000 people - even though 48% of Russia's population lives there. The rate of losses was smallest in major cities, with Moscow having the least deaths per capita - five people for every 10,000 males, or 0.05%. In poorer regions, such as Buryatia in eastern Siberia, and Tuva in southern Siberia, the death rate is 27 to 33 times higher respectively than in the capital. The main driver of this gap between cities and rural areas is the difference in economic development, pay and education, says demographer Alexey Raksha. As a result, soldiers from poorer regions and ethnic minorities make up a larger share of the army and of the dead than the overall population, he says. Regions with a high share of losses had lower life expectancy even before their men joined the war, another Russian demographer told the BBC. "For many, the driver is not only poverty but a lack of prospects - the feeling that there is nothing to lose," he says. In Sedanka, a monument to "participants of the special military operation" was unveiled in autumn 2024. Last year, the regional government pledged to bestow the honorary title of "village of military valour" for the participation of its men in the war. It also promised a support programme for families of Sedanka's soldiers. Yet the village has still not received its honorary title nor has much of the promised support for soldiers' families arrived. Roofs on the homes of four contract soldiers were fixed after falling into disrepair, but only after significant media attention. One in five houses, built during Soviet times, has been deemed by the state to be unsafe. Its sole school has been classed by officials as being in a state of emergency, with some walls at risk of collapse. All of this has been compounded by the loss of the village's working-age men to Russia's war in Ukraine. Additional reporting by Yaroslava Kiryukhina and Natalia Maca Groca. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Evidence is mounting that Elon Musk's decision to deny Russian forces access to his Starlink satellite-based internet service has blunted Moscow's advance, caused confusion among Russian soldiers and handed an advantage to Ukraine's defenders. But for how long? And what can Ukraine's military achieve in the meantime? "The Russians… lost their ability to control the field," a Ukrainian drone operator who goes by the callsign Giovanni told us. "I think they lost 50% of their capacity for offence," he said. "That's what the numbers show. Fewer assaults, fewer enemy drones, fewer everything." It's still early to assess the impact of a change that only came into effect at the beginning of the month, after Ukraine's defence minister, Mykhailo Fedorov, asked Elon Musk's SpaceX company to block Russian access to Starlink. But in some areas of the long front line, especially east of the city of Zaporizhzhia, there is some evidence of Russian forces being forced to retreat. The request from Federov came as evidence mounted that use of Starlink was enabling Russian forces to mount increasingly accurate attacks, including multiple instances of $400 (£300) units being attached to drones, allowing operators to use real-time video links to guide drones onto targets. SpaceX's satellite communications have proved vital to both armies during the four-year war. It's widely believed that a deadly Russian attack on a moving passenger train in the Kharkiv region last month involved a Geran-2 drone, equipped with a Starlink terminal. But since 1 February, all that has changed. SpaceX switched off all terminals operating in Ukraine, except those on a "white list" approved by the Defence Ministry in Kyiv. Private users across the country had to re-register their units, along with their personal ID numbers, before being reconnected. At this point, Ukrainian online activists from volunteer group InformNapalm decided to exploit the situation, launching a successful phishing operation that persuaded Russian soldiers to reveal details of their Starlink terminals. "When people started messaging us, we directed them to closed group chats," says Mykhailo Makaruk, spokesman for InformNapalm. "We wanted to show that it was top secret." Makaruk says his group successfully identified 2,425 Starlink terminals, from the Crimean peninsula in the south to the city of Gomel in eastern Belarus. Believing they were on a fast track to having their terminals reconnected, some soldiers were even tricked into making online payments totalling $5,000. Once the locations of the terminals close to the front lines had been established, many were targeted by Ukrainian artillery and drones. Amid reports that Russian soldiers were attempting to bribe Ukrainian collaborators to register Starlink terminals on their behalf, InformNapalm identified around 30 people who had been ready to share their data. A week ago, Ukraine's Security Service, the SBU, said it was "actively countering Russian attempts to recruit Ukrainian citizens for the illegal registration of Starlink systems". The SBU has warned all Ukrainians "to remain vigilant and not fall for such provocations", warning that collaboration with Russia is regarded as high treason and can lead to lengthy prison sentences. Makaruk says Russia's FSB Security Service is issuing its own warnings, telling soldiers not to fall for the scam, but he says the phishing operation has had a disruptive psychological effect. "They don't trust each other anymore," he says, sharing screenshots of expletive-laden Russian chats in which the dangers of keeping a Starlink terminal nearby are discussed. On the battle front, Ukrainian soldiers have noticed a difference too. Deprived of Starlink's high speed, jam-resistant internet connectivity, their Russian opponents have been scrambling to find workarounds. "In our area, they began to use radio communication," one told the BBC, on condition of anonymity. "It became easier to understand their actions." Signs of hasty Russian adaptation have been observed up and down the long front line. "The Russians are now urgently switching to wired communication," another told us. Artem, a soldier with an engineering unit, said his Russian opponents were struggling to guide their drones as effectively as before. "This is important for the protection of our critical infrastructure, logistics and control points," he said. "The Russians have lost frontline communications in many places." Ukrainian military analysts say the impact on drone strikes on Ukrainian logistics and positions far from the front is crucial. "Russian drone operators [used] to control and directly strike selected targets 100-250 kilometres from the front line," said Serhii Kuzan, chairman of the Ukrainian Security and Co-operation Centre. "Now they no longer have this capability." In a war where the speed of communication can mean the difference between life and death, some Ukrainian soldiers sense this is a moment of real opportunity. "If we can beat the enemy's command transmission by even five or 10 seconds, it's a total game-changer at the front," one told us. Ukraine's military intelligence (HUR) has published what it says are intercepts of Russian communications, which it says illustrate the frustration at the failure of some home-grown systems to compensate for the lack of Starlink. "From what I know, this 'Gazprom' [terminal] is just total crap," one Russian soldier is quoted as saying, apparently referring to equipment produced by Gazprom Space Systems, using its own Yamal satellites. The BBC is not able to verify the source of the alleged intercept. HUR's conclusion, in a press release on Tuesday, was that the shutdown of Starlink "has already led to serious problems with unit co-ordination, logistics, and the deployment of various unmanned systems – from ground-based to aerial drones." Videos circulating on social media, which the BBC has not verified, purport to show Russian soldiers being targeted by Ukrainian drones while attempting to rig up alternative wi-fi bridges on electricity bridges and TV towers. Not all Ukrainian soldiers are convinced that the situation has changed dramatically, with some saying they have noticed little difference, or suggesting that other factors, including the weather and planned troop rotations, may also be at play. "Drone and artillery shelling continue as before," one told us. In Moscow, Russian military officials, speaking on state TV, said the loss of Starlink had not affected their operations, with one claiming that Starlink had only been used by a handful of units, "primarily to mislead the enemy". Speaking to the BBC from his position close to the contested eastern city of Pokrovsk, Giovanni said it wouldn't be long before the Russians figured out a solution. "I have no doubt they will adapt," he said. How long this will take is anyone's guess. In the meantime, Ukrainian forces are trying to take as much advantage as possible, attempting to expand the dangerous expanse of no-man's land between the two sides, an area often described as the "grey zone" or "kill zone". "We're clearing up the grey zone now," Vlad Voloshyn, spokesman for the army's Southern Command, told the BBC. "We try to strike the enemy wherever they are." Voloshyn disputed media reports that Ukraine had launched a major counter-offensive, recapturing more than 200 sq km (77 sq miles) of territory in a matter of days last week. The goals, he said, were more modest. "We didn't let the enemy entrench in the grey zone and we stopped their storm groups," he said. Former Ukrainian intelligence officer Ivan Stupak says the military probably has a couple of months in which to exploit the current situation. "The Russian armoured forces on the ground are partly blind and partly deaf," he says. "Maybe they will be so frustrated and demoralised that even a small counter-offensive could be on the same scale as 2022." A repeat of the lightning successes of the summer and autumn of 2022, when Ukrainian forces retook huge swathes of territory in the north and the south, seems unlikely at this point. But Stupak says any territorial gains will strengthen the Ukrainian leader's position at the negotiating table. "We could repulse Russian forces, regain our territory and then we could start this negotiation, but with new cards," he says. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. The company’s public stock debut is set to be one of the most valuable in history, and could make Musk the world's first trillionaire. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Talks between Russia, Ukraine and the US aimed at ending Moscow's war in Ukraine have concluded without a breakthrough. The trilateral meetings, held in Geneva, went on late on Tuesday but only lasted two hours on Wednesday. Although US envoy Steve Witkoff had expressed optimism over the talks, both the chief Russian negotiator and Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky indicated they had been "difficult". After the main talks concluded, Kremlin negotiator Vladimir Medinsky returned to the venue and held a closed-door meeting with the Ukrainian side for about an hour and a half. No details from that meeting have emerged. Some progress was made on "military issues", including the location of the front line and ceasefire monitoring, according to a Ukrainian diplomatic source. White House spokeswoman Karoline Leavitt said later on Wednesday that "there was meaningful progress" made on both sides, and an agreement to "continue to work towards a peace deal together". But an agreement on the issue of territory - without which no ceasefire can be envisaged - remains elusive, with Moscow and Kyiv's positions still far apart. Russia has not budged in its demand for full control of the eastern Donbas region - made up of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions - which is a non-starter for Ukraine. While conceding talks were challenging, Kremlin negotiator Vladimir Medinsky added that they had been "businesslike" and said another meeting would take place "soon". Zelensky also described the negotiations as "not easy" due to the difference in the two sides' positions. Rustem Umerov cut a less downbeat tone, saying the discussions had been "substantive and intensive" and that while there had been progress, no details could be disclosed "at this stage". "This is complex work that requires alignment among all parties and sufficient time," Umerov said. Shortly before the end of the talks was announced, Zelensky accused Russia of "trying to drag out negotiations that could already have reached the final stage". The Russian and Ukrainian delegations last met in US-brokered talks in Abu Dhabi earlier in February, which led to the first prisoner exchange in several months. On Wednesday, Zelensky indicated that another swap might be forthcoming. US President Donald Trump, who spearheaded diplomatic efforts to end the war, has been signalling impatience with the deadlock between the two sides. On Monday, he said Ukraine had "better come to the table, fast" - a sentiment Zelensky has since rejected, saying it was "not fair" that his country should be the one asked to compromise. Four years on from the start of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, substantial distance still exists between Moscow's demands and what Kyiv might consider a "just peace". Kyiv has long rejected Russia's demand for the eastern Donbas, which would mean relinquishing Ukrainian sovereign territory, including several heavily fortified cities and a long defensive line in the region of Donetsk. Many Ukrainians believe giving that territory up would leave the country vulnerable to another Russian invasion. Zelensky himself has drawn parallels with the 1938 Munich Agreement, when European powers let Hitler annex the Czech territory of Sudetenland. On Tuesday, Zelensky told US media outlet Axios that any plan to hand over the Donbas would be rejected by Ukrainians if it were put to a referendum. The Ukrainian president is also working to ensure that robust security guarantees to deter Russia from attacking again are provided by Kyiv's western allies. Another sticking point in the talks is the status of the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant. The power plant – Europe's largest – sits on the front line and has been under Russian control since March 2022. Ukraine wants Moscow to return it and Zelensky has previously said Kyiv could share control of the plant with the Americans - an arrangement Moscow is unlikely to agree to. Officials from Britain, France, Germany and Italy were present in Geneva and held talks with the Ukrainians on the sidelines of the trilateral meeting. European representatives have struggled to be included in the US-led negotiations, but Zelensky said European participation was "indespensable" for any final agreement. In a wide-ranging interview on Piers Morgan Uncensored on Wednesday, Zelensky confirmed there would be more talks in Switzerland and repeated that while progress had been made from a military perspective, "on the political direction it's more difficult". During the interview, he also said he could not really "understand" Trump's relationship with the Russian President Vladimir Putin, adding "for me it's very, very painful that his attitude to Putin is sometimes...more good than Putin deserves". Next Tuesday will mark the fourth anniversary of Moscow's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. The war, which has resulted in tens of thousands of military and civilian casualties and displaced millions across Ukraine, continues to shape the lives of Ukrainians, with daily deadly aerial attacks across the country. Four people were killed and 30 injured in Russian artillery and air strikes overnight on Tuesday. Power infrastructure too continues to be targeted across the country, leaving millions without light or heating in one of Ukraine's coldest winters in years. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US special envoy Steve Witkoff said talks between Ukraine and Russia had "brought about meaningful progress" to end the war, as both sides prepared for a second day of negotiations in Geneva on Wednesday. However, hopes of a breakthrough remain low, with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky saying it "was not fair" that US President Donald Trump keeps asking his country to compromise, adding that "peace wouldn't be achieved if victory is handed to Russia". US President Donald Trump has recently suggested it is up to Ukraine to ensure talks in Switzerland are successful, without mentioning Russia. The Kremlin has not wavered from its maximalist demands for Ukrainian territory. "President Trump's success in bringing both sides of this war together has brought about meaningful progress, and we are proud to work under his leadership to stop the killing in this terrible conflict," Witkoff wrote on X after the first day of talks. Zelensky has repeatedly said his country is being asked to make disproportionate compromises compared to Russia. Russia occupies roughly 20% of Ukraine, including large parts of the eastern Donbas region. The Kremlin wants Ukraine to hand over the rest of the region, which Ukraine has ruled out. Ukraine says robust security guarantees from the West - including the US - must come before any settlement with Russia can be agreed. Zelensky told the Axios website on Tuesday it was "not fair" that Trump kept calling on Ukraine to broker a deal, adding: "I hope it is just his tactics and not the decision." In a statement on social media on Tuesday evening, top Ukrainian negotiator Umerov said the first day of talks focused on "practical issues and the mechanics of possible solutions". In a video address shortly afterwards, Zelensky said Ukraine was ready to refrain from carrying out strikes, as proposed by the US to both Kyiv and Moscow. "We don't need war," he said, stressing that Ukrainians were "defending our state, our independence". "We are also ready to quickly move towards a worthy agreement to end the war. The question is only for the Russians: What do they want?" The talks are the third round of trilateral negotiations. Russia's state news agency RIA quoted a source saying that Tuesday's negotiations, which lasted six hours, had been tense and took place in different bilateral and trilateral formats. The talks are being mediated by Witkoff and Jared Kushner, the US president's son-in-law. On the Russian side, President Vladimir Putin's aide Vladimir Medinsky is the top negotiator. The negotiations are being held a week before the fourth anniversary of Moscow's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. The Russian defence ministry said 43 Ukrainian drones were shot down over several Russian regions and Crimea overnight into Wednesday. Ukraine's air force said Russia had launched 126 attack drones at Ukraine overnight, adding preliminary data suggested 100 had been shot down before they reached their target. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russian and Ukrainian delegations have ended the first day of US-brokered peace talks in Geneva, a week before the fourth anniversary of Moscow's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Top Ukrainian negotiator Rustem Umerov said the negotiations would continue in the Swiss city on Wednesday morning. Hopes for a breakthrough during the latest - third - round of trilateral talks are low, as the Kremlin has not wavered from its maximalist demands for Ukrainian territory. Russian strikes on Ukraine continue on a nightly basis, further damaging the country's already battered power grid as subzero temperatures continue. Just hours before the delegations met in Geneva, Russia carried out a large combined aerial attack on Ukraine, hitting 12 regions with 400 drones and almost 30 missiles. At least three people were killed, Ukrainian officials said. Meanwhile, Russia said its air defences had repelled more than 150 drones, while an oil refinery caught on fire after a Ukrainian drone strike. In a statement on social media on Tuesday evening, Umerov, Ukraine's top security official, said the talks focused on "practical issues and the mechanics of possible solutions". He said he would now inform Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky about the results. In his video address shortly afterwards, Zelensky said Ukraine was ready to refrain from carrying out strikes as earlier proposed by the US to both Kyiv and Moscow. "We don't need war," he said, stressing that Ukrainians were "defending our state, our independence". "We are also ready to quickly move towards a worthy agreement to end the war. The question is only for the Russians: what do they want?" Meanwhile, Russia's state RIA news agency quoted a source saying that Tuesday's negotiations, which lasted six hours, had been tense and took place in different bilateral and trilateral formats. The talks are being mediated by Steve Witkoff, Donald Trump's special envoy, and Jared Kushner, the US president's son-in-law. On the Russian side, President Vladimir Putin's aide Vladimir Medinsky is the top negotiator. Both Ukraine and Russia also had senior military figures in their teams. Ahead of the talks, Trump said Ukraine had "better come to the table fast." He has previously signalled his impatience with the lack of swift progress in solving the four-year conflict. Russia occupies roughly 20% of Ukraine, including large parts of the eastern Donbas region. The Kremlin wants Ukraine to hand over the rest of the region, which Ukraine has ruled out. For Ukraine, robust security guarantees from the West - including the US - must come before any settlement with Russia can be agreed. In Kyiv, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andrii Sybhiha condemned the overnight Russian strikes, saying they showed the "extent to which Russia disregards peace efforts". At least three energy workers were killed near the frontline city of Slovyansk in Monday's overnight attacks, Ukraine's deputy Energy Minister Artem Nekrasov said. A further nine people - including children - were injured across the country, President Zelensky said. More than 10 residential buildings were damaged, with railway infrastructure also damaged. "Russia must be held to account for its aggression," he wrote on X, adding: "For peace to be real and just, action must target the sole source of this aggression". Kyiv said 12 regions were hit, damaging infrastructure and leaving thousands without power in the southern port city of Odesa. DTEK, the country's largest private energy firm, said power infrastructure in the city had suffered "incredibly serious" damage, adding it would take a long time to return to a working condition. Ukraine is facing an acute energy crisis after months of relentless Russian attacks on its infrastructure and as it struggles through a freezing winter. It launched its own volley of attacks on Russia overnight. Officials said a fire broke out at the Ilsky oil refinery in the southern Krasnodar region after a drone strike. A reservoir storing oil products also caught fire. The border region of Belgorod continued to come under attack, with Ukraine launching dozens of drones and causing significant damage of power infrastructure. These latest discussions follow last month's trilateral talks in Abu Dhabi, which were the first three-way between Russia, Ukraine and the US since Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of its neighbour in February 2022. They ended with no breakthrough - although the first prisoner of war exchanges in months took place shortly after. Additional reporting by Jaroslav Lukiv The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"It is quite honestly amazing" - Mark Stevens just cannot believe how much candle wax is being sent his way. The retired silversmith hit the headlines in January as he discussed how he collected candles from churches and shops so he could use the wax to make temporary stoves for people in Ukraine. Since then, he said he had had donations from as far away as Belfast and Scotland, with 600kg (1,323lbs) in total of wax donated to him. "I am just amazed of the generosity of people," Stevens said. "Everytime I go into St Lawrence's Church [in Ludlow] there is another bag for me. "At one point, in my garage last week, I couldn't get in the door." His donations have included ones from manufacturers as well as Worcester Cathedral, he said. Stevens makes all of the stoves himself and boxes them up so they can be sent to the front line. He estimates he spends three days a week just on the stoves, then donates them to organisations who send them directly to the Eastern European country. Last weekend, this included more than 200kg (441lbs) being sent on a lorry from Shrewsbury to Kharkiv. The two groups he sends to the most are Shropshire Supports Ukraine and Macclesfield Ukrainian Aid, in Cheshire. In Ukraine, many people have been left without power and heating, after Russia launched a wave of targeted attacks on the country's power grid in January. Stevens vowed to keep using his skills to help those in Ukraine "for as long as the war goes on". "In the winter months in Ukraine, they are suffering temperatures of -16°C to -20°C," he said. "They have no lighting so something as simple as a candle makes a difference to people's lives. "It's a matter of life and death for people." He has personally travelled to Ukraine four times and plans to make the trip again next month. Despite the material being designed to burn and emit heat, he said crossing international borders on his humanitarian mission did not throw up any big challenges for him. "Once we are on the continent, there is no trouble there," Stevens said. "The border in the Ukraine are more than welcoming. They know who we are, they know what we are doing and they welcome us." Follow BBC Shropshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. A number of lane closures and full carriageway closures are planned for the M5 near Worcester. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. All three suspects are in police custody after a woman was stabbed on Monday in Worcester. Chris Garratt is taking on the 2026 London Marathon in full graduation attire. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Maxim doesn't mind discussing his sperm. In fact, he wishes more in Ukraine's military would talk about their fertility – or at least think about it. "Our men are dying. The Ukrainian gene pool is dying. This is about the survival of our nation," the soldier tells me, speaking by phone from a position somewhere near the eastern frontline. The 35-year-old is serving with Ukraine's National Guard and when he returned on leave recently his wife persuaded him to visit a clinic in Kyiv and leave a sperm sample. It was frozen free of charge as part of a programme to help serving soldiers. If Maxim were killed, his wife could use the sample to try to have the child they've always wanted. But he says his frozen sperm could be crucial to creating a family, in any case. "Whether you are right on the 'zero point' of the frontline, or 30 or even 80 kilometres back, there is no guarantee that you're safe," the soldier says, explaining that Russian drones overhead are a constant threat. "That means stress, and this [can have] an impact: your reproductive ability declines. So we have to think about the future and the future of our Ukrainian nation." Private fertility clinics began offering what's known as cryopreservation to servicemen and women in 2022 at the start of Russia's full-scale invasion. They could freeze their sperm or eggs for free in case they were injured in action or their fertility was affected. The following year parliament stepped in to regulate the practice and provide state funding. "Our soldiers are defending our future, but may lose their own, so we wanted to give them that chance," is how MP Oksana Dmitrieva describes the law she helped draft. "It's to support them, so they can use their sperm later." The politicians' initial efforts caused a public outcry though, when they stipulated that all samples should be destroyed on a donor's death. That came to light when a war widow tried to have a child using her husband's frozen sperm and was blocked. The law has since been amended so that all soldiers' samples are preserved for free for up to 3 years after their death and are available for a partner to use with prior written consent. The programme is also about addressing a demographic crisis which existed before Russia's invasion but has been made far worse by the large numbers of men dying in action, many of them Ukraine's youngest and fittest. Then there's the millions, mainly women, who have left as refugees. Four years on, many are still abroad because life in Ukraine isn't getting easier. That fact is driven home when I meet the MP in a hotel lobby and we talk without removing our coats: this winter Russia's relentless missile strikes on the power grid have left thousands of buildings in Kyiv freezing cold. "We're also thinking about the future and all the young people we've lost. We need to replace them," Dmitrieva says. "This is one tiny step to improve the demographic situation." On her own visits to the frontline the MP encourages soldiers to talk about their sex lives and fertility problems – and to think about freezing their sperm. "At first they're really embarrassed, but we talk and I tell them to tell others, and then they come and they do it," she says. "If they have this chance, then why not? It doesn't hurt!" Kyiv's state-run Centre for Reproductive Medicine began accepting soldiers onto the "frozen sperm" programme in January. Only a dozen or so have signed up so far but the clinic is confident that will change once word gets out. "We expect big demand. We have high hopes," director Oksana Holikova says, leading me towards the laboratory where the "biomaterial" is collected, prepared, and then stored. Giant vats open with a puff of what looks like dry ice to reveal long, slim tubes suspended inside, full of sperm. Our route through quiet corridors reveals the hidden strains of this war: just one newborn gurgling in a cot, and one woman in labour. The number of pregnant patients the clinic sees has dropped by half since the start of the all-out war. "If women are stressed, they [can] have problems with their periods. It's all linked," Holikova points out. "About 60% of my patients are on anti-depressants, including people with panic attacks because of the missiles and drones." Others have what she terms "delayed life syndrome": putting major life decisions, including childbirth, on pause. "Women are scared of getting pregnant if they're going to end up running to bomb shelters." So Ukraine needs every newborn child possible. But the legislation to help military families doesn't always work smoothly. Katerina Malyshko and her husband Vitaly had been trying for a baby for a while. She believes their problems conceiving naturally were caused, or at least exacerbated, by the war: "all the stress and sleepless nights," Katerina says. "Every night is like a lottery: you don't know whether you'll wake up." The young couple would have celebrated their fourth wedding anniversary this year, perhaps with a new baby. Last winter they had three viable embryos at the fertility clinic and Katerina was due to have them transferred to her womb. "It was a direct hit with a guided bomb, he had no chance," she tells me. Katerina talks frankly about her struggle just to go on living without her husband. Her pain was then made even more acute when the clinic said she had no right to continue treatment with the frozen embryos or Vitaly's sperm. "They would store it," she says. "But I couldn't use it." The MP, Oksana Dmitrieva, has intervened directly with some clinics to ensure soldiers' families get treated. But she admits the new law still needs "ironing out". A vote on several amendments is due in Spring. But Katerina, desperate and grieving, had to turn to the courts and it was only six emotionally exhausting months later that a judge finally decided in her favour. "I read the ruling and sat there and cried. Because it was our family. We had waited to long for that and been through so much," Katerina recalls. "I felt joy and grief at the same time because I'd had to fight for my rights. But I wanted to do it, to honour my husband." Katerina isn't ready to try for a child just yet: she feels too fragile. She also has no hopes the war will end soon, which would allow her to give birth in a country at peace. "If we compromise now, then what did so many people die for?" is her reaction to the idea Ukraine might give up land Vitaly was killed defending, for Russia to stop its invasion. But Katerina does want the option of having her husband's baby when she's ready for that. "I think the children of our soldiers who've been killed should have a chance to live: they have the right to live in the country their parents died for." Out on the frontline, in constant danger, Maxim agrees. "That's why I did it, and it's great!" the soldier tells me over the phone. "Because maybe tomorrow, I'm suddenly gone. But my wife will have my sperm and can use it. It's one less thing for me to worry about." The biggest problem Maxim sees is persuading men to sign up for the programme. The Kyiv clinic director, Oksana Horlikova, recalls talking to one war veteran who told her soldiers were coming to him in tears because they were struggling to have sex with their partners or conceive. "Men are secretive, but there are lots of psychological problems," Maxim admits. So he suggests soldiers could be told to freeze their sperm when they're drafted, like they leave DNA samples to identify them if they're killed. "All that's holding people back is that we need to talk about this more and explain why it's important," the soldier concludes. "Because we men won't do anything, unless you shove it in our face – and make us." Additional reporting by Tetiana Dankevych Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A newborn baby hat appeal in Guernsey is back up and running less than three weeks after being suspended, having found new partners. Last month, Stand With Ukraine - Newborn Baby Hats Appeal (NBHA), said its logistic partner could no longer support its shipments to Ukraine and Latvia, so paused its services. Now, Ferryspeed and Ukraine Relief in Bournemouth have partnered with the appeal, meaning it could resume operations, project leaders said. Ferryspeed would deliver humanitarian aid from Guernsey to Ukraine Relief, where it would then travel to Ukraine, they added. The NBHA had be running for more than three years. Founder Lilita Krūze, said the appeal was very grateful for its new partners and its supporters. Krūze said: "Several of them have been with us for almost four years and were saddened when we had to suspend operations for an indefinite period. "Our green collection boxes will [now] be back in both Waitrose stores from Monday." Donations could also be dropped off at churches, including Castel, St Matthew's, St Saviours, Torteval and Vale, bosses said. Follow BBC Guernsey on X and Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to channel.islands@bbc.co.uk. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. "We can't imagine why anyone would want to remove these bollard covers," says Carnon Downs crafter. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A former energy minister in Ukraine has been detained while attempting to leave the country, authorities have said. German Galushchenko, who was forced out of his government role last year after being among officials named in a corruption scandal, was reportedly apprehended while on a train leaving Ukraine. It is unclear where he intended to travel to. He was one of several government figures implicated in an alleged $100m (£75m) embezzlement scheme in November. The scandal threatened to engulf Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's administration, which swept to power before Russia's full-scale invasion on the promise to root out corruption. Zelensky's chief-of-staff Andriy Yermak - his closest adviser throughout the war - resigned after his home was searched. Neither the president nor Yermak have been accused of any wrongdoing. The scandal has, however, increased pressure from the US to hold elections, which have been suspended since the start of the war in 2022 due to provisions in Ukraine's constitution. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine (Nabu) said in a statement on Sunday that its detectives had detained the former energy minister "while crossing the state border", as part of the Midas case. It did not name Galushchenko explicitly, but he has been named by several prominent Ukrainian media organisations. Galushchenko was briefly justice minister, a post he held when he was told by Zelensky to resign in November, having served as energy minister for three years prior to that. His successor, Svitlana Hrynchuk, also resigned after being implicated in the scandal. Nabu gave no further details on Galuschenko's detention, but said it would provide updates in due course. Radio Free Europe reports that he was being transported to Kyiv for further questioning, after border guards were told to alert the authorities if he attempted to flee. A massive anti-corruption probe, dubbed Operation Midas, was the culmination of 15 months of investigating, Nabu and Ukraine's other anti-corruption body, the Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (Sap), said. They accused several people of orchestrating a scheme to embezzle money in Ukraine's energy sector, including at the national nuclear opertor Energoatom. Galuschenko was among those alleged to have systematically collected kickbacks from Enerhoatom contractors worth between 10% and 15% of contract values. The anti-corruption bodies also said the huge sums had been laundered in the scheme and published photographs of bags full of cash. The funds were then transferred outside Ukraine, including to Russia, Nabu said. Galushchenko previously said he would defend himself against the accusations. Former Deputy Prime Minister Oleksiy Chernyshov was arrested in November on suspicion of "illicit enrichment", having already been charged with abuse of office. Timur Mindich, a businessman and a co-owner of Zelensky's former TV studio Kvartal95, reportedly fled the country after he was flagged as a suspect. That the figures were accused of enriching themselves from Ukraine's energy sector caused particular outrage domestically, as the scandal broke as Russia stepped up attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure ahead of a bitterly cold winter. The former Soviet Union member has long been plagued by issues of corruption, which have continued despite Nabu and Sap operating for a decade. Cracking down on corruption is seen as a key requirement for Ukraine joining the EU. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian skeleton slider Vladyslav Heraskevych's disqualification from the Winter Olympics over his helmet depicting fellow athletes killed since Russia's full-scale invasion is the Games' biggest controversy so far. Heraskevych was barred from the men's skeleton in Milan-Cortina earlier this week after he refused to stop wearing it and on Friday his appeal was denied. He has said those featured on his helmet include teenage weightlifter Alina Perehudova, boxer Pavlo Ishchenko and ice hockey player Oleksiy Lohinov, adding that some of them were his friends. More than 20 athletes appear on the helmet in total - here's more on each of them. Androschuk died a few days after his 22nd birthday in January 2025 while fighting in the Bakhmut area of eastern Ukraine. He represented his country at the international level, competing in decathlon and pentathlon events. At one time he had hoped to qualify for the 2024 Olympics in Paris or the 2028 Games in Los Angeles, the New York Times reported, but by 2022 injuries meant he decided to volunteer for the army instead. "It was his dream," Oleksiy Kasyanov, the general secretary of Ukraine's track and field federation and formerly its national decathlon coach, told the paper in reference to Androschuk's sporting ambitions. Bakhur was killed last year during Russian shelling in the Kharkiv region, north-eastern Ukraine. The 17-year-old was a kickboxing champion who represented Ukraine at national and international level. She died a few weeks before her 18th birthday after suffering shrapnel wounds  while running for shelter in the city of Berestyn. Speaking to Ukrainian newspaper Pravda after her death, Bakhur's coach, Volodymyr Zibarov, said the athlete "had enormous potential". "We were supposed to leave tonight for the World Cup in Austria... Russian missile simply took Karyna from us one day earlier," he said. Eleven-year-old Diachenko was a promising gymnast who died in the south-eastern city of Mariupol in March 2022, according to the memorial website Angels of Sport. She had been inside her home with her family when a Russian air strike hit the building, killing her and her father instantly. Her mother and brother were taken to hospital, which was later hit by an air strike, killing them too. Halinichev died in 2023 in the Luhansk region of eastern Ukraine. According to Ukrainian sports news outlet Tribuna, he refused to participate in a 2022 European boxing championship in order to volunteer as a soldier. Speaking to Voice of America, one of his coaches said once Halinichiev had seen the destruction caused by the war, he felt he had to fight. "I have a little child. I don't want her to live in occupation among the aggressor, among the Russians," another of his coaches quoted him as saying. Tribuna said Halinichev was injured twice during the war but continued to fight until his death. He won silver at the 2018 Youth Olympic Games and the 2021 European U22 Championships. Ishchenko from Kyiv was a four-time strongman champion and former Ukrainian powerlifting champion. He was also a coach, mentoring young people. Ukrainian outlet Sport.ua said following his death: "His legacy continues to inspire new generations of athletes who see in him a model of resilience, courage, and dedication to sport and the country." He died last year on the front lines. Nine-year-old Ivashko was a judo enthusiast who was killed while trying to shelter from Russian air strikes alongside her mother in Kyiv in June 2023. Following her death, the Ukrainian Judo Federation's president Mykhailo Koshlyak said Ivashko's death was "painful for the entire Ukrainian judo family". Khabarov, 31, was a "stalwart" of the Ukrainian national shooting sport for over a decade, according to the International Shooting Sport Federation (ISSF). During his career he was a national record holder on multiple occasions, as well as a national champion. In 2023 he joined the army and died in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine last year. "He was an elite athlete who paused his career to defend his country, and will forever be in the hearts and memories of the Ukrainian people," ISSF president Luciano Rossi said in a statement following his death. Kononenko was a competitive strongman as well as an actor who starred in popular Ukrainian TV programmes. He went to fight on the front lines in February 2022 and by November had suffered a severe injury, Pravda reported. He designed his own rehabilitation programme, which he shared with others on social media, before later going back to fight on the front, becoming a senior lieutenant and commander of a rifle platoon. Contact with him was lost during a combat mission in February last year and in December he was declared killed in action. Kozubenko was a diver and coach from Mykolaiv, southern Ukraine. He died in combat last year aged 31. "In the country's most difficult time, Kozubenko took up arms to defend his native land," the Ukrainian Sports Comittee said when announcing his death. Kurdel was a 20-year-old dancer who died in the central city of Kryvyi Rih in July 2022 during a Russian air attack. She had been training at a sports ground with her father at the time of the attack. Her parents were also injured but survived. Kurdel won a number of international dance competitions before her death. Kutsenko was a track cycling champion who had competed for Ukraine between 2006 and 2016, representing his country at European and World championships. The 34-year-old lived in Italy with his family prior to the full-scale invasion, but came back to Ukraine to join the army not long afterwards. He was killed in 2024 in a combat mission, according to regional officials. Fifteen-year-old Lebid was killed during a Russian missile strike on a high-rise building in Dnipro in 2023. She was a ballroom dancer and president of her school's student council. According to Angels of Sport, during her school presidential election campaign she wrote about herself: "I'd like to tell you a little about myself: I'm 15 years old, I have a music education, and I'm passionate about learning English. My hobby is houseplant cultivation. I'm determined, friendly, and hardworking. I try to approach life with humour and positivity." Lohinov was the former goalkeeper of the Ukrainian professional ice hockey team, Bilyi Bars (White Leopard). He was killed at the age of 23 in the Luhansk region in 2023. Malyshev was 19 when he died on the front lines in Kharkiv. He was a former biathlete who competed in the 2020 Winter Youth Olympics in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was posthumously awarded an Order For Courage in 2022. Fourteen-year-old Perehudova was killed during Russian shelling of Mariupol in March 2022. She died shortly after leaving her house with her mother when an explosion took place, according to Pravda. Her brother ran out after them and was shot by a Russian sniper, it added. Perehudova was a candidate for the national Ukrainian weightlifting team and was preparing to take part in a European Championship. Polischchuk was a track and field athlete who specialised in the high jump. He joined Ukraine's armed forces in the first few days of the full-scale invasion and died in March 2023. Sharpar was a 25-year-old figure skater who died on the front lines near Bakhmut in eastern Ukraine in 2023. Originally from Kharkiv, he won a silver medal in the Ukrainian Championships in 2016 and took part in the Youth Winter Olympics in Norway that same year. After giving up professional figure skating, he became a professional performer in ice shows. Shpuk joined the Ukrainian army as part of a volunteer battalion in 2014. He went on to be involved in veteran sports and coached Ukraine in an Invictus Games. Following Russia's full-scale invasion he rejoined the army and died in September 2025 aged 34. "Taras Shpuk was a warrior, and he died as a warrior," said Taras Chmut, director of the Come Back Alive Foundation, which Shpuk worked for. Former professional athlete Troyan died in June 2025 in the Pokrovsk area of eastern Ukraine, aged 32, after being wounded during a combat mission. She was also a programmer and journalist and worked at an international IT company before volunteering for the army in 2024. According to Angels of Sport, she operated drones on more than 1,000 combat missions. Greco-Roman wrestler Yaremenko was a member of the Ukrainian national team. He died a few days before his 26th birthday in December. He had dreamed of becoming a coach and had studied for a masters in physical culture and sports, Angels of Sport said. He was killed during a combat mission. Friends and colleagues described him as someone with "a keen sense of justice, inner balance, and a big heart," Angels of Sport said. Yepifanov was a national fencing champion in Ukraine before suspending his career to fight on the front lines. He joined the army in the first days of the full-scale invasion at the age of 18 and died at the front in 2023. Zui, 13, loved boxing and football and played the latter for a local team in Mariupol. He died in March 2022 after a Russian air strike hit a high-rise building where the family was seeking shelter. His parents were also killed. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An overnight Russian drone strike has killed three toddlers and their father and also injured their pregnant mother in Ukraine's north-eastern Kharkiv region, local officials say. Regional head Oleh Synegubov said Ivan and Vladyslav, two-year-old twin boys, and their one-year-old sister Myroslava died when their house was hit in the town of Bohodukhiv. Their father was named as Hryhoriy, aged 34. The toddlers' mother Olha, 35, had minor burns - but survived. Russia has renewed its almost daily drone and missile strikes after a week-long pause earlier this month that Donald Trump had asked Vladimir Putin to observe as a fierce cold swept Ukraine. In a statement on social media, Synegubov described the Russian attack on Bohodukhiv as "brutal". He said that the family that was in the hit house had recently evacuated from a town near the Russian border, trying to escape constant shelling. "It was their first night in the new place," the regional head added. Bohodukhiv, north-west of Ukraine's second largest city of Kharkiv, has been under almost daily Russian attack in recent days. On Monday,  a 41-year-old woman and a 10-year-old boy were killed in the town, local officials said. Russian forces also dropped seven bombs on the city of Slovyansk on Tuesday, Donetsk regional head Vadym Filashkin said on Telegram. Three people, including an 11-year-old girl, were killed. Moscow has increased pressure on the area by targeting transport and energy infrastructure with a record number of ballistic missiles, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said. A state of emergency has been declared over the energy situation in the Kharkiv region by local authorities. It comes after a so-called "energy truce", which was meant to allow Ukraine's energy sector a reprieve during -20C (-4F) temperatures, expired last week. Tens of thousands of people across Ukraine are experiencing severe power cuts, and many households have no running water or heating. Zelensky has said the US wants the war with Russia to end by June, and that both sides had been invited to the US for talks next week. Meanwhile, a massive attack by Ukrainian drones on Volzhsky, in the Volgograd region in Russia, was reported on Wednesday night. Regional Governor Andrei Bocharov said an apartment was damaged in the strike and a fire broke out at a factory. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Ukrainian singer-songwriter who came to the UK as a teenager is raising funds to help people affected by the war in her home country. Yana Kozah was just 18 when she left Ukraine for Poland after the Russian invasion in February 2022. Now living in Trowbridge in Wiltshire, she sings in a choir and performs solo in an effort to raise money for John's Red Bus, a UK charity delivering aid. She told BBC Points West: "[In Ukraine,] people are without heating, no light. Sometimes you wish you could not read the news but then you remember these people are living it, they cannot turn it off." Kozah said she moved to Poland with her parents and sister when Russian forces invaded. She met her Trowbridge boyfriend online, and he helped her come to the UK two years ago. "I joined a choir and we prepared a concert to raise funds for Ukrainian children," she said. "It nicely lined up. We started singing together and since then we've been performing, we rehearse once a week in the old town hall in Trowbridge." She said it was then a "natural transition" to sing her own songs on stage solo. "The main reason I'm trying to do what I'm doing is to help my country in ways I can," she added. The funds she raises at her concerts go to John's Red Bus, which brings aid to people in Ukraine. Her next concert is on 30 May in Trowbridge. Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. A woman who had ovarian cancer is calling on others to get symptoms checked. It is hoped the new building, approved by Wiltshire Council this week, will "ease pressure" on current operations. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Russian general who was shot several times in Moscow on Friday has regained consciousness after successfully undergoing surgery, according to reports in Russian media. Lt Gen Vladimir Alexeyev, who is Russia's deputy head of military intelligence, was rushed to hospital in serious condition on Friday morning after the attack in the north-western outskirts of the capital. Two suspects have reportedly been arrested and will soon be taken in for questioning. Russian officials have blamed Kyiv for the shooting, but Ukraine's foreign minister denied involvement, according to Reuters. Doctors said on Saturday it can be "cautiously stated that the threat to [Alexeyev's] life has passed", Russia's state news agency Tass has reported. The highly decorated general was ambushed on the landing inside his apartment block, where a gunman inflicted three bullet wounds, a source close to the investigation told the Kommersant newspaper. He was reportedly hit in the chest or abdomen before the attacker and an accomplice fled the scene. A neighbour in the building on Volokolamsk Highway told Reuters she had been woken by the sound of "several" shots and had then heard another neighbour screaming for help. Alexeyev was taken to a Moscow hospital with injuries where he reportedly underwent successful surgery. "Afterwards, Alexeyev was placed in a medically induced coma. He has now regained consciousness. At this point, it can be cautiously stated that the threat to his life has passed," medical sources said, according to Tass. Investigators on Friday said they had opened a criminal case for attempted murder. Two suspects will be taken for questioning and a court hearing could take place on Sunday to determine their pretrial detention, Kommersant reported. Alexeyev, 64, is the latest high-ranking military figure to be targeted near Moscow since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. As number two in the main directorate of Russia's GRU military intelligence, he has played a significant role in the war in Ukraine and was previously awarded the Hero of Russia title for his part in Moscow's military intervention in the Syrian civil war. He was placed under European Union and UK sanctions after the GRU was accused of being behind the 2018 nerve agent attack in Salisbury in the UK. He was also sent to negotiate with the head of the Wagner mercenary group, Yevgeny Prigozhin, who led a short and bloody mutiny in June 2023. His boss at the GRU, Igor Kostyukov, has been in charge of Russia's negotiating team at peace talks with Ukrainian and US teams in Abu Dhabi. The latest round ended on Thursday without a major breakthrough. No-one has so far claimed Friday's attack, but Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov was quick to point the finger at Ukraine, saying it was an attempt at "disrupting the negotiation process". Ukraine's Foreign Minister Andriy Sybiha told Reuters that Kyiv had nothing to do with Friday's shooting. Kyiv has claimed responsibility for some attacks on Russian military figures in the past. An Uzbek man was jailed in January for the 2024 killing of another general, Igor Kirillov, in an explosion outside a block of flats in Moscow. Sources in Ukraine's SBU intelligence said at the time it was behind the attack. Another high-ranking officer in the GRU, Lt Gen Fanil Sarvarov, was killed when an explosive device detonated under a car in Moscow in December. Ukraine did not comment at the time. Russian intelligence officials claimed they had thwarted an attempted attack on a Russian soldier in St Petersburg at the end of last month. Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Saturday that the US had proposed talks between negotiators from Moscow and Kyiv for the first time on American soil, "probably in Miami". He added that the US wants the war to end by June. There was no immediate comment from Washington or Moscow. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says the US wants the war with Russia to end by June, adding both sides had been invited to the US for talks next week. "America proposed for the first time that the two negotiating teams – Ukraine and Russia – meet in the United States of America, probably in Miami, in a week. We confirmed our participation," he said. There was no immediate comment from Washington or Moscow, but US President Donald Trump has been pushing for an end for the conflict since he took office again more than a year ago. Meanwhile, Russia has continued its attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure - causing further widespread blackouts during freezing conditions. In comments released on Saturday, Zelensky told reporters what had taken place during the second round of US-brokered peace talks in Abu Dhabi, which ended on Friday with no reports of a breakthrough. Zelensky said "difficult issues remained difficult", including territorial concessions that Ukraine is under pressure to make. He said the parties discussed, for the first time, the possibility of a trilateral meeting between leaders, not simply representatives, but cautioned "preparatory elements are needed for this". Asked whether a time frame had been given for an agreement, the Ukrainian leader replied: "The Americans say that they want to do everything by June." "Why before this summer?" he added. "We understand that their domestic issues in the US will have an impact." These issues include the November midterm elections, which could affect the balance of power in the US government. As the diplomacy continues, so too are Russian strikes on Ukraine's energy facilities. "Russian criminals carried out another massive attack on Ukraine's energy facilities," Ukraine's energy minister, Denys Shmyhal, wrote on Telegram. Substations, which control the flow of electricity, and overhead power lines that "form the backbone of Ukraine's power grid" were targeted, Shmyhal said. Power plants were also struck. Ukraine's state-owned energy operator, Ukrenergo, said "the power deficit in the power system of Ukraine significantly increased" as a result of the latest attacks. Shmyhal said neighbouring Poland had been asked for emergency power supplies. Zelensky wrote on social media that Friday night's attack involved more than 400 drones and 40 missiles. Air-defence systems intercepted most, but not all, of them, the Ukrainian military said. "The main targets were the energy grid, generation facilities, and distribution substations," he said, adding that damage had been reported in at least four regions. In the western region of Lviv, the Dobrotvir power plant came under attack, leaving thousands of people without electricity, according to the regional head, Maksym Kozytskyi. At least 6,000 people were without power as a result of hourly power outage schedules, he added. The Burshtyn power plant was also struck in the nearby Ivano-Frankivsk region. DTEK, which runs both the Dobrotvir and Burshtyn plants said it was the tenth "massive attack" on its power plants since October 2025. "In total, DTEK thermal power plants have been attacked by the enemy more than 220 times since the beginning of the full-scale invasion," the company added on Telegram. This was launched by Russia nearly four years ago. One person was reported dead in the Rivne region and several were injured in Zaporizhzhia. Rivne's head, Oleksandr Koval, said there was also damage to homes and "critical infrastructure". In Kyiv, residents once again took shelter in metro stations. Among them, Oksana Kykhtenko, told the Reuters news agency: "They [Russians] make us live in inhumane conditions. Without heating, without electricity." A drone strike in the city of Yahotyn, about 10km (6.2 miles) away, caused a fire at a warehouse complex, the Ukrainian emergency services said. Ukraine has also attacked Russia, striking a factory that makes missile fuel components in the western Tver region, according to media reports quoting Ukrainian security officials. Further south, in the Saratov region, an oil depot was also hit, Ukraine said. Russia has not commented on any of the latest attacks. Moscow renewed its attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure on Monday after a pause US President Donald Trump had asked Vladimir Putin to observe due to the fierce cold in Ukraine. Trump said the pause lasted for a week until last Sunday but Kyiv disputed the timeline. DTEK said the combined missile and drone strikes caused "the most powerful blow" to infrastructure so far this year. "Moscow must be deprived of the ability to use the cold as leverage against Ukraine," Zelensky wrote on X on Saturday, responding to the latest strikes. Russia has also accused Kyiv of not being serious about securing a lasting peace. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Friday blamed Ukraine for the shooting of a high-profile general in Russia's military, saying it was aimed at "disrupting the negotiation process". It is not yet known who was behind the shooting. Some 55,000 Ukrainian soldiers have been killed since Russia launched its full-scale invasion in February 2022, Zelensky said earlier this week. The BBC has confirmed the names of almost 160,000 people killed fighting on Russia's side in Ukraine. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A group of men from Guernsey have joined forces to send a generator "big enough to power a small village" to war-torn Ukraine. The generator will be stationed in the city of Odesa, in south-western Ukraine, where it will be used to provide energy and infrastructure in a village there. Guernsey businessman John Mellor donated the standby generator from an old empty building in St Peter Port. Mellor said he could have sold the generator but preferred to give it to Ukraine. He said Nick Reid helped organise the delivery while Deputy Marc Lainé drove the generator from Guernsey to Ukraine - a journey of almost 2,000 miles. Reid said it was the third repurposed generator he had organised for Ukraine. The first was sent to a hospital for injured serviceman and the second to a police headquarters for bomb disposal staff in western Ukraine, for which he was awarded a plaque from the National Police Department. Reid said the third would be used to help power a small community in south-western Ukraine. "If we can help, why not?," he said. Follow BBC Guernsey on X and Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to channel.islands@bbc.co.uk. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Nazar Daletskyi's family were sure the soldier had been killed in action. In 2023, they'd buried his body in the village cemetery, in western Ukraine. But Nazar has just phoned his mother, weakened and exhausted - but very much alive. He's been released from Russian captivity in the latest prisoner swap. "My emotions were so strong," the soldier's mother Nataliya told the BBC, still reeling from the shock. The joy of all the family at that first call, captured on video, is overwhelming. Nataliya asks her son whether he's intact, "You have your arms, your legs, everything?" she wants to know. "My golden child, I have been waiting for you so long." Nazar's cousin, Roksolana, is screaming and jumping for joy in the background. "It was so strange, because my son had died, I buried him, but here's his voice. Can you imagine the emotions of a mother? Happiness. Great happiness. I could not hold back my tears," Nataliya said. The full story of Nazar's return from the grave is extraordinary, especially in a country at war where good news is precious. When Russia launched its full-scale invasion in 2022, Nazar - who was 42 then - went straight back to the front: he'd already fought in 2014, so he was experienced. "He didn't have any doubt. He went immediately," his cousin told the BBC. But in May that first year, Nazar went missing in action. His mother then got a call from a man speaking Russian who said Nazar had been captured, but "everything will be fine". The mystery voice didn't say where Nazar was, who was holding him - or whether he was injured. The family had no idea whether to believe him - and they got no official news. That was until a year later, when Nataliya was informed that a body had been identified in a morgue in south-eastern Ukraine, using a sample of DNA she had given. "The body was badly burned. They had several that they found in a burned bus. When they started looking at the lists of missing soldiers, the data matched," Roksolana explains. "They identified this body as Nazar." So the family received the body, held a funeral and they grieved. Then last September they got the biggest shock of all. A soldier, just released by Russia, called to tell them Nazar was alive. He had seen him in jail. "We were shocked, it was so hard to believe. But why would he lie?" Roksolana remembers how it felt. Still, without speaking to Nazar or seeing him, they couldn't be sure. Then this week, he called - back on Ukrainian soil. Nataliya's son had been gone for three years and nine months. As they wait for their big reunion, the family have been trying to remove material about Nazar's funeral from social media, not to upset him. They also had to get his photograph taken down from a display of fallen heroes in the village. There's now an investigation to understand how such a distressing mistake was made. But for the moment, the family have other things to focus on. Nazar's mother is preparing all his favourite homemade food, for when he's recovered a bit and ready to come home. "I just want more positive outcomes like ours, for other families to get calls and for people to come home," Roksolana says. Some 70,000 people are officially missing here, most thought to be soldiers. Some will have been killed on the battlefield, their bodies impossible to recover. But many have been taken prisoner and, for their families, Nazar's story will be a glimmer of hope. "I wish all women, mothers, children get a call like we had - and this happiness," Nataliya says. "I'm just waiting for my son now, to hug him so tightly. I love him very much." Additional reporting by Mariana Matveichuk. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A member of the Ukrainian Army has thanked the efforts of people in the UK who helped deliver a fleet of vehicles to the war effort there. Bruce Burrow, from Newnham-on-Severn in Gloucestershire, set off on the 2,000-mile journey last week to the Army Veterans Volunteer Centre in Cherkasy. He led a convoy of five vehicles with the help of his two friends Phil Pritchard and Alison Green, who arrived home earlier this week. "It's very important for us to know that we are not alone in our fight," said the soldier, who the BBC is not naming to protect her identity, adding that the vehicles would help "save the lives of many people at the front line". The soldier told BBC Radio Gloucestershire that people in the war-torn country were "deeply grateful" for the contribution from Gloucestershire as Ukrainian forces continue to resist the Russian invasion. "Our towns suffer drone attacks, and last night Bruce heard the missiles flying out over his truck. "We are not at the front line here but we try to do our best to help those people who are at the very front, to provide any aid which we can." She said the five vehicles from Gloucestershire would be used to evacuate the wounded and deliver food and equipment to military units. Semi-retired builder Burrow said: "It was a real relief to get here, ad to see the people that I know here – it was great." He described the weather in Ukraine as "bitter", with temperatures as low as -23 degrees Celsius (-9.4 Fahrenheit). Despite the freezing cold weather, Burrow said his friends at the volunteer centre were "delighted" to see him, and that the trip so far had been a "terrific success." "They're so pleased. I know a good few of them personally, and I hadn't seen them for a couple of years. So that was really something." Burrow had already been to Ukraine several times to deliver food and supplies, but this time, he led a convoy of five vehicles which will be used on the front line. He said that during the winter, the volunteer centre requests clothing, food and vehicles for the soldiers, to help give them mobility. "They source vehicles from all over Europe, and they're getting expensive and relatively scarce," explained Burrow. He plans to stay in Ukraine for a little while longer, to help deliver the vehicles to soldiers on the front line. His team have gone against travel advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office which states that there is an ongoing risk of harm to British nationals from Russian attacks across all of Ukraine and advices against all travel to a large part of the country. "I would like to thank the people that have helped me," he said. "We mustn't forget, Philip and Ali, to make that offer to come all this way at their own expense, is quite an ordeal. "I simply couldn't have done it without them offering their assistance." Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. Zac Summers-Cameron died in 2025, aged 22, after his testicular cancer was originally misdiagnosed. Lester Murphy says he wants to inspire others who have been diagnosed the neurological disorder. A collection of photos from Bristol, Somerset, Wiltshire and Gloucestershire in early spring. Councils are considering permanent options as replacing scaffolding would cost £600,000. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US and Russia have agreed to re-establish high-level dialogue between their armed forces. The announcement came after a meeting of senior US and Russian military officers in Abu Dhabi in the margins of talks about the war in Ukraine. In a statement, US European Command said the renewed dialogue would "provide consistent military to military contact as the parties work towards a lasting peace". This marks a significant rapprochement between the world's two largest nuclear powers and comes after President Donald Trump repeatedly voiced his desire to normalise relations between both countries. The announcement also came amid reports the US and Russia were negotiating a deal to extend a nuclear arms reduction treaty due to expire on Thursday. Throughout decades of crisis and confrontation, the US and Russia have often kept channels of communication open between their armed forces. The aim was to avoid misunderstanding and escalation. But those contacts were suspended in 2021 shortly before Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Since then there have been flashpoints involving Russian drones and warplanes entering Nato airspace, and US unmanned aircraft over Syria and the Black Sea. The new agreement was reached during talks in the UAE between US General Alexus Grynkewich, America's and Nato's top general in Europe, and senior Russian and Ukrainian military officials. US European Command said: "Maintaining dialogue between militaries is an important factor in global stability and peace, which can only be achieved through strength, and provides a means for increased transparency and de-escalation. "This channel will provide a consistent military-to-military contact as the parties continue to work towards a lasting peace." The aim, it said, was "to avoid miscalculation and to provide a means for avoiding unintended escalation by either side". There has been some contact between the US, Nato and Russia military officers in recent years but this announcement means a regular dialogue between senior commanders will be re-established. Russia said on Thursday it regretted the expiry of the New Start treaty with the US but was still ready to talk. The Kremlin has offered to extend the treaty and its spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said Russia would engage in dialogue with the US if it responded positively. On Thursday, Trump wrote on social media: "Rather than extend "NEW START" (A badly negotiated deal by the United States that, aside from everything else, is being grossly violated), we should have our Nuclear Experts work on a new, improved, and modernized Treaty that can last long into the future." The Axios news service reported that negotiations had been taking place over the past 24 hours in Abu Dhabi and the two countries were closing in on a deal to keep observing key terms of the treaty. Under New Start, agreed in 2010, both sides agreed to deploy no more than 1,550 strategic nuclear warheads on no more than 700 bombers or missiles. The expiry of the treaty would leave both countries for the first time in half a century without any legal framework restraining their nuclear ambitions. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine and Russia have conducted a rare exchange of prisoners of war and civilians after two days of US-brokered peace talks in Abu Dhabi. A total of 157 Ukrainians - seven of them civilians - and 157 Russian soldiers were returned home in the first such swap in four months. Russian, Ukrainian and US teams took part in the talks in the capital of the United Arab Emirates, with the main sticking points believed to be territorial concessions Ukraine is under pressure to make and security guarantees for it to prevent further Russian attacks if a deal is agreed to end the four-year war. No breakthrough has been reported. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said the talks had not been easy and he wanted "faster results". Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. In a post on social media, Zelensky wrote that Thursday's prisoner exchange "took place after a long pause" - referring to the previous such swap last October. "We are returning our people home - 157 Ukrainians. Soldiers of the Armed Forces, National Guard, State Border Service. And civilians are also returning with the defenders," the Ukrainian president said, pledging to bring back every single Ukrainian still in Russian captivity. Ukrainians officials said 139 had been in Russian captivity since 2022. Meanwhile, the Russian defence ministry said 157 of its POWs were returned by Kyiv. The ministry added that three Russian civilians "illegally held" were also handed back. They were residents of the western Kursk region, parts of which were occupied by Ukraine during its incursion in 2024-25. The talks in Abu Dhabi - the second round in recent weeks - are part of US President Donald Trump's efforts to end the war. Special envoy Steve Witkoff and Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner have been leading the negotiations. The talks had been "detailed and productive", Witkoff wrote on X, but added that "significant work remains". The most difficult issue is territory, with Russia demanding that Ukraine cedes the rest of the eastern industrial region of Donbas that Moscow does not currently control. Another key sticking point is believed to be Kyiv's demand to get robust security guarantees from its European allies and the US. The trilateral talks began as Russia renewed its deadly attacks on Ukraine after a week-long pause that Trump had asked Russian President Vladimir Putin to observe as a fierce cold swept Ukraine. Moscow has been targeting the country's energy sector, leaving thousands of people without electricity, heating and water in freezing temperatures. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The number of Ukrainian soldiers killed on the battlefield in the four years of war with Russia is 55,000, President Volodymyr Zelensky has said. Zelensky announced the figure in an interview with France 2 TV on Wednesday. Additionally, a large number of people are considered officially missing, he said. While both Kyiv and Moscow have regularly published estimates of the other side's losses, they have been reluctant to detail their own. However, the BBC has confirmed the names of almost 160,000 people killed fighting on Russia's side in Ukraine. US President Donald Trump has been leading efforts to end the war that began with Russia's full-scale invasion of its neighbour on 22 February 2022. Special US envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law, held talks with Russian and Ukrainian negotiators in the capital of the United Arab Emirates, Abu Dhabi, for a second day on Thursday in an effort to try and thrash out the details of the US-proposed peace deal. It was the second such trilateral meeting and the talks had been "detailed and productive", Steve Witkoff wrote on X, but "significant work remains". The most difficult issue is territory, with Russia demanding that Ukraine cedes the rest of the eastern industrial region of Donbas that Moscow does not currently control. Zelensky said the talks had not been easy, and Ukraine would remain "as constructive as possible", but wanted "faster results". Trump often says thousands of Ukrainians and Russians die unnecessarily every week. Western intelligence agencies also publish estimates, which are impossible to verify. The last time Zelensky gave an update on Ukraine's casualties was in December 2024, when he put deaths at 43,000. In his interview with French television, he said: "In Ukraine, officially the number of soldiers killed on the battlefield - either professionals or those conscripted - is 55,000." The official number of dead cited by Zelensky is considerably lower than Ukraine's total losses. As he said himself, "a large number of people" are registered as missing. As of six months ago, Ukraine's interior ministry had recorded more than 70,000 people as officially missing - both soldiers and civilians - but the breakdown is never given. The true figure may be higher - information about the number of dead is highly sensitive and affects morale. Across Ukraine, military graves are prominent in all cemeteries - marked with blue and yellow national flags. They often have an image of the soldier in uniform engraved on the headstones. We have also met mothers still searching for their sons, who never returned from battle. Often, they cling to hope that the men are prisoners of war, captured and held in Russia somewhere but not on any official lists. Access to Russian prisons for organisations like the Red Cross is highly restricted. The alternative is that the missing men have been killed and their bodies not recovered from territory now controlled by Russia, or that their remains have not yet been identified using DNA testing. Every so often, the two countries arrange an exchange of bodies - in addition to swapping prisoners of war - but there has been nothing at all since last August. Another agreement on swapping prisoners was reached in the Abu Dhabi talks, Witkoff announced. It involved the exchange of 314 prisoners - "the first such exchange in five months", he said. "While significant work remains, steps like this demonstrate that sustained diplomatic engagement is delivering tangible results and advancing efforts to end the war in Ukraine," Witkoff added. Zelensky confirmed 157 Ukrainians were released, and vowed to continue work so everyone was returned home. Russia's ministry of defence also showed pictures of its soldiers after they had been released by the Ukrainians. At the end of the talks, the US European Command issued a statement saying the US and Russia had agreed to re-establish high-level military-to-military dialogue, which was suspended in the autumn of 2021. "This channel will provide a consistent military-to-military contact as the parties continue to work towards a lasting peace," the statement said. The Abu Dhabi talks began as Russia renewed attacks on Ukraine after a week-long pause that Trump had asked Russian President Vladimir Putin to observe as a fierce cold swept Ukraine. It has been targeting the country's energy sector, leaving thousands without power and heating as temperatures dropped to -20C (-4F)". A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The quiet of a Kyiv cemetery is broken by a trumpet salute, then a burst of rifle fire. Soldiers stretch a Ukrainian flag over a shiny wooden coffin and stand silently alongside in the sparkling white snow. A woman cries, her face crumpling. Natalia is burying her husband for the second time. Vitaly was killed three years ago fighting in the eastern Donbas and his first grave was in their home town of Slovyansk. But Russian forces have advanced since then and the area is increasingly under attack. So Natalia had her husband's grave exhumed and Vitaly's remains moved hundreds of miles to Ukraine's capital. "When we buried him in Slovyansk, land was being liberated and we thought the war would soon end," Natalia explains, after the reburial ceremony conducted with military honours. "But the frontline is constantly moving closer and I was scared Vitaly might end up under occupation." Vitaly was a ceramics artist who volunteered to defend his country in the early days of Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022. "He didn't want to, but he had do it. He was a patriot," Natalia explains, through her tears. She was pregnant when her husband was killed and he never got to meet their daughter. The decision to move Vitaly's body from the land where he was born and fought was extremely painful. "It was very hard, emotionally. But it was the right decision," Natalia is sure. "It would have been far harder to leave him, to know that he had stayed." Ukrainians are facing unimaginable choices now as the US tries to broker a peace deal between Moscow and Kyiv, but Russia pushes on with its invasion. That includes massive aerial attacks against Ukraine's energy system, against all rules of war. Meanwhile, the most pressure for compromise is on Kyiv. At some point, the US-led talks will hone in on the most sensitive issue of all: the status of land in the eastern Donbas region that so many men have died defending. Ukraine still controls around a fifth of the area, including Slovyansk. But the town is close to the current frontline where Russian forces have been trying to push forward for months. Kyiv proposes freezing the fighting there, ceding nothing more. But Moscow wants to be handed control over the rest of the region and the US is thought to agree. That is far from Vladimir Putin's original plan to take over all Ukraine – to "denazify" and "demilitarise" as he snarled at the time. But it would allow him to claim a victory for Russia of sorts. "There are drones in the streets, hitting minibuses, and glide bombs fall in the city centre, leaving craters," Natalia says, describing life in Slovyansk now, where her husband had been buried. "A few months ago, the attacks were weekly. Now it's every couple of days." North of Natalia's hometown, up around the city of Kharkiv, there are more signs that the danger zone is spreading. Workmen hammer stakes into the frozen ground to fit nets which they'll then stretch over the road in a canopy as protection against Russian drones. Not far away, in an unmarked spot, we visited a workshop for Ukraine's own UAVs. The soldiers of the Typhoon unit work in a basement filled with heaps of kit and cables, reached via a handmade wooden staircase. The men are responsible for repairing drones damaged at the frontline and for innovation: Ukraine needs every chance against an enemy with more men and more resources. The music playing as the team work is chirpy French pop, but the soldiers' mood is mixed. "We try not to discuss it here," 29-year old Roman replies, when I ask about giving up territory in return for peace. "People quarrel and we don't need that right now. We need to unite, and fight the Russians." Roman lost "a lot of guys", he says, during his two years in the infantry, fighting in the Donbas. No surprise that it's far harder to recruit these days. Last month the country's defence minister revealed that a staggering 200,000 soldiers were absent without leave. But like many Ukrainians, Roman is sure that gifting the Donbas to Putin would not make Ukraine secure. "The Russians will only come back for more," he says. Hunched over a laptop in the back room, another soldier admits that "victory" in this war looks very different these days. "I would say our victory is in preserving our statehood," Maksym argues, choosing his words carefully. "Even if we have three square kilometres of land, but we keep our constitution and our institutions, then this is still Ukraine." He thinks the soldiers should fight on, regardless. "Russia is 10 times our size. But still we can't surrender." Back in Kyiv, Natalia clings to the arm of a friend, as grave diggers shovel fresh earth onto her husband's coffin then slot a wooden cross into place on top. A photograph of Vitaly shows him smiling, posing beside a yellow sunflower. Natalia is relieved to have her husband close again where she and their daughter, Vitalina, can visit his grave safely. "[She] watches videos of him, looks at photos and she loves him very much even though they never met," Natalia smiles. She also hopes to tell her husband soon that she's pregnant using the sperm the couple had frozen specially at a clinic, just a few days before Vitaliy was killed. Many soldiers now do the same before heading for the front. It's a brutal fact, but Natalia says none of Vitaliy's soldier friends made it to his reburial, because so many of them, too, are now dead. Ukraine has paid an immense price already for four years of all-out war. Ceding land to Russia that it already controls is one thing: an option now quietly accepted by many. But Natalia can't bear the thought of Russia taking more territory, including the town where she and Vitaly lived and were in love. She has "no doubt" her husband would have wanted the army to fight on, not concede now. "Russia may pause for a year, then there will be another breakthrough and they'll be in Kharkiv," Natalia says. "I just don't believe Russia will stop." Additional reporting by Mariana Matveichuk, Anastasiia Levchenko and Paul Pradier Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky says more than 200 repair crews are working to restore power in Kyiv following widespread deadly Russian attacks targeting the country's energy sector. More than 1,100 apartment buildings in the capital are still without power, Zelensky said, adding that he had spoken to officials about supporting communities in other affected parts of Ukraine. In the eastern Ukrainian town of Druzhkivka, seven people were killed and fifteen injured in Russian cluster bomb strikes, the regional head said. Moscow has recently renewed its attacks after a week-long pause that US President Donald Trump had asked Vladimir Putin to observe as a fierce cold swept Ukraine. Meanwhile, US, Ukrainian and Russian officials are again meeting in Abu Dhabi to discuss details of a peace plan. However, there a few signs a breakthrough is imminent during the second round of such trilateral talks in the United Arab Emirates. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. "As of today, the toughest situation is in Kyiv and the region, Kharkiv and the region, Sumy region, and Poltava region," Zelensky wrote on social media on Wednesday. "It is also difficult in other parts of central Ukraine, including Dnipro and Cherkasy regions." He added that more repair teams would be brought in to help restore power "to ensure proper rotation of crew members - people are exhausted." Residents have been forced to spend the night sheltering in Kyiv's metro stations, with some pitching tents on the platforms to protect them from the freezing cold. Authorities have set up centres around the city for people to go to warm up. They are also importing more generators to cope with longer blackout periods as engineers try to fix the damage. In the north-eastern city of Kharkiv, a power plant has been damaged beyond repair. Ukraine's Energy Minister, Denys Shmyhal, said the country's energy system would take some time to fix. This includes Kyiv's Darnytsia Combined Heat and Power (CHP) plant, which Shmyhal said had been "severely damaged". Iryna Vovk is a psychologist who lives in Kyiv with her daughter. Her husband is away fighting. Speaking to BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Vovk said she was considering moving to her parents' village because of the problems accessing electricity and water in the capital. "Here in Kyiv, life is very awful," she said. Asked how her daughter is coping, Vovk said she was "okay in general". "She tries to smile and lead a normal life but it's not a normal life. She cannot study [like] normal, she cannot use online lessons." UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said Russia's attacks on Ukraine's energy sector on Monday night - as temperatures dropped to -20C (-4F) - were "barbaric" and "particularly depraved". He made the comments following a phone call with Trump hours after Russia hit power plants and critical infrastructure in Kyiv and elsewhere. Trump told reporters that Putin had "kept his word" on the week-long pause. The agreement "was on Sunday, and he [Putin] went from Sunday to Sunday", Trump said when asked whether he was disappointed with Russia's renewed attacks. "It's a lot, you know, one week, we'll take anything, because it's really, really cold over there." The US president has been leading efforts to end the war, but his Russian counterpart has refused calls for a ceasefire. The Ukrainian Air Force said it was attacked by more than 100 drones early on Wednesday. While it had intercepted most of these, it added, drone strikes were reported in 14 locations, along with falling debris. Seven casualties were reported in Druzhkivka by Vadym Filashkin, the head of the eastern Donetsk region. He wrote on Telegram that Russians had hit the city with cluster shells, including a busy market. The head of Dnipropetrovsk's military administration, Oleksandr Ganzha, said a 68-year-old woman and a 38-year-old man were killed in a Russian attack. In the Zaporizhzhia region, leader Ivan Federov said three people were killed and 11 wounded, including children, during attacks on Tuesday evening that continued overnight. The Russian-controlled government in the neighbouring Luhansk region said a man and a woman were killed on Tuesday night in a drone attack, launched by Ukraine, which hit a minibus. In Russia itself, the governor of the western Bryansk region, Alexandra Bogomaz, said Ukraine had launched a "combined attack" including drones and long-range missiles - destroying a residential building and injuring one person. Further south in Belgorod, close to the border with Ukraine, governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said work was continuing to restore power and water services following a Ukrainian missile strike there earlier in the week. Meanwhile, peace talks continue, with top US envoys again meeting negotiators from Russia and Ukraine in the UAE on Wednesday and Thursday. Special envoy Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law, are joining teams of Russian and Ukrainian negotiators in the capital, Abu Dhabi, to try and thrash out a US-proposed peace deal. The most difficult issue is territory, with Russia demanding that Ukraine cedes the rest of the eastern industrial region of Donbas that Moscow does not currently control. The first talks between the three parties, which were also held in Abu Dhabi, ended earlier this month with no apparent result. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia has used a record number of ballistic missiles to target Ukraine's energy sector, President Volodymyr Zelensky has said. The combined missile and drone strikes hit power plants and infrastructure in Kyiv and multiple locations causing "the most powerful blow" so far this year, according to private energy company DTEK. The strikes were launched as temperatures dropped to -20C  (-4F) and left more than 1,000 tower blocks in the capital without heating once again and damaged a power plant in the eastern city of Kharkiv beyond repair. Zelensky said Russia was "choosing terror and escalation" rather than diplomacy to end this war and called for "maximum pressure" on Moscow from Ukraine's allies. The attack comes after a so-called "energy truce" agreed by Donald Trump with Vladimir Putin expired at the weekend. Ukraine's president suggested that Russia had simply used the time to stock up on missiles and prepare for the next attack. It also came on the day Nato Secretary-General Mark Rutte was in Kyiv to meet President Zelensky and to address the national parliament. Donald Trump's initiative was meant to give diplomacy a chance. Negotiators from Russia and Ukraine are due to meet in Abu Dhabi for another round of talks co-ordinated by the US later this week. It is clear that Russia has other ideas. And in fact, there is always a gap between Russia's massive strikes which makes Ukrainians doubt there was ever any real pause at all. We heard the first explosions in Kyiv soon after midnight and the air raid lasted more than seven hours. There were several subsequent blasts. Residents spent the night sheltering in metro stations, with some pitching tents on the platforms to protect them from the freezing cold. President Zelensky has said more than 70 ballistic and cruise missiles were fired - significantly more than usual - together with 450 drones which are used to overwhelm Ukraine's air defences. Ukraine's Air Force said it had intercepted only 38 of the missiles, which means many reached their target. Officials here have complained repeatedly of a shortage of missiles to protect the skies. Ukraine relies on US-made Patriot missiles, in particular. "Timely delivery of missiles for air defense systems and the protection of normal life are our priority," Zelenksy wrote on X this morning. "Without pressure on Russia, there will be no end to this war." In response, Nato's secretary-general said he was urging member countries to "dig deep in their stockpiles" and provide the missiles Ukraine needs. "I know that more is urgently needed," he said. "We are working to ensure that more comes quickly." Rutte also said Nato was standing by Ukraine as it made tough decisions during peace talks and that the alliance would provide the "hard power" to back up any eventual deal. But the Nato chief agreed with Zelensky that Russia's overnight attack did not "signal seriousness about peace". Volodymyr Zelensky has accused Moscow of using the coldest days of winter to "terrorise people". DTEK has confirmed that two of its own power plants were hit again overnight, including in Odesa, in what it says was the ninth massive attack on the sector since October. State-run facilities were hit in Kyiv, Dnipro and elsewhere, adding to serious damage caused by a series of previous targeted attacks. DTEK says some of the plants targeted were providing heating only, not electricity, which means they were exclusively for civilian use. The Geneva Convention makes clear that targeting civilian infrastructure is a potential war crime. Each time makes it harder to carry out repairs and leaves the system more fragile, and prone to blackouts. Teams of engineers have been working through the night for weeks to fix things - drafted in from all over the country and hailed as heroes. But there are not enough workers to keep up with demand. We have met residents who have had no heating in their homes for days, in some cases weeks. They sleep in hats and coats, and under piles of blankets, but it is still bitterly cold. Many use soup kitchens to get free hot meals because there are also power cuts here for hours on end. People believe these attacks are intended to turn them against the authorities in Kyiv, to make their lives so miserable they submit to Russia's demands - including to hand over land in the eastern Donbas region that Moscow currently does not control. Instead, there is a lot of anger here at Russia for attempting to freeze civilians in their homes as well as resistance to any form of compromise with Moscow. "Russia won't get what it wants," Vera told the BBC this weekend, as she queued for a bowl of stew served by volunteers. "We are stronger than them in any case." Volodymyr said he planned to sleep in a local school for a few days, which has a generator to keep it warm. "In the daytime you move around a bit," he said. "But at night it's really cold." He was furious with Russia. "They are bombing civilians. They want us to freeze and die," he said. Several residential buildings were damaged in the latest attack and set on fire by falling debris as Ukraine shot down missiles and drones. Several people were injured. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Elon Musk's efforts to stop Russia from using Starlink satellites for drone attacks have "delivered real results", a Ukrainian official said. Praising the SpaceX founder as "a true champion of freedom and a true friend of the Ukrainian people", defence minister Mykhailo Fedorov said Musk had swiftly responded when he was told Russian drones with Starlink connectivity were operating in the country. The drones have been linked to a number of recent deadly attacks by Russia on Ukraine, including one on a moving passenger train which left six people dead. "Looks like the steps we took to stop the unauthorised use of Starlink by Russia have worked," Musk wrote on X. "Let us know if more needs to be done." Starlink satellites operated by SpaceX provide high-speed internet around the world. It has worked in Ukraine since the first days of Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022. The Russian drones are difficult to shoot down, Fedorov said, as they fly at low altitudes, cannot be countered with electronic warfare, and are controlled by operators in real time from a distance. The Institute for the Study of War warned in mid-January that since Russia had begun equipping the cheap kamikaze Molniya-2 drones with Starlink, their battlefield efficiency had increased "dramatically". While neither Fedorov nor Musk elaborated on what the response had been, the defence ministry's official website ArmiyaInform reported that SpaceX had introduced a speed limit of 75kph on Starlink terminals moving over Ukraine. "Russian drones move much more quickly, so the enemy operators will not be able to control them in real time," the website said. On Monday Fedorov said the Ukrainian government was also preparing to implement a white list of approved Starlink satellite terminals which could operate in Ukraine. All unregistered terminals will be disconnected, Fedorov said. "We are implementing this in cooperation with SpaceX," Fedorov stated, adding that instructions on registering the terminals would be forthcoming. Russian war bloggers warned the implications could go beyond drones, as the Russian military uses Starlink to provide the front line with internet. Fedorov - then deputy prime minister - asked for Musk's help soon after Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. By the end of the day Musk said Starlink had been enabled in Ukraine and promised more satellite dishes. But shortly after supplying Ukraine with Starlink, Musk's relationship with Kyiv became turbulent. Later in 2022 he denied the Ukrainian military access to Starlink in Crimea, where Russia has been stationing military equipment since illegally annexing in 2014. At the time, Musk justified the decision by saying that Ukraine would have used Starlink access to "sink most of the Russian fleet", making SpaceX "complicit in a major act of war". Musk has since repeatedly criticised Western countries for providing Ukraine with funding and weaponry. "It is insane to keep sending so much money to Ukraine with no accountability and no end game," he said. However, he has also stated that "no matter how much I disagree with the Ukraine policy, Starlink will never turn off its terminals." "My Starlink system is the backbone of the Ukrainian army. Their entire front line would collapse if I turned it off," Musk said in March. Despite these tensions, Fedorov last week again praised Musk's timely decision to provide his country with access at the start of the full-scale invasion, saying Starlink had been "critically important for the stability of our state". The 35-year-old former digital transformation minister was appointed to head the ministry of defence by President Volodymyr Zelensky last month. Fedorov favours a data-driven strategy and advanced cyber-warfare. He has also vowed to work closely with Silicon Valley companies, arguing that integrating partners would make Ukraine's defence system stronger. Additional reporting by BBC Monitoring A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. The Artemis II mission is planned to last about 10 days and take its astronauts further into space than anyone has been before. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Twelve miners have been killed by a Russian drone strike in eastern Ukraine, the country's largest private energy firm has said. DTEK said a bus carrying workers after a shift in the eastern Dnipropetrovsk region had been targeted in Sunday's attack. At least 15 people were injured, state emergency services said. Earlier, at least two others were killed and nine injured in separate Russian attacks overnight and on Sunday, including six people who were hurt when a drone hit a maternity hospital in Zaporizhzhia. The strikes come while Russia had agreed not to target population centres and energy infrastructure for the duration of a cold snap. Strikes have continued in regions of Ukraine near the front line but cities like the capital, Kyiv, have largely been untouched over the past few days. Moscow did not mention the cold weather when confirming the move, instead saying it was to facilitate peace negotiations due to be held in Abu Dhabi this week. Zaporizhzhia regional head Ivan Fedorov called the hit on the maternity hospital - which occurred as two women were giving birth - further "proof of a war directed against life" in a post on Telegram. BBC Verify confirmed the site was Maternity Hospital No.3 on Bocharova Street in the east of the city. Footage shared across social media carried the watermarks of national and local administrations and showed offices, rooms with beds for patients, and a children's room with the windows broken and covered in debris. Some footage showed degrees of fire damage, while two videos showed a fire still burning on the first storey. Another showed fire fighters breaking down interior doors and ferrying patients away. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andriy Sybiha said the hospital attack showed Russian President Vladimir Putin was pursuing a "war against civilians contrary to peace efforts". Fedorov later reported three people had been injured by a separate strike in a residential area. After the strike on the DTEK bus in the town of Ternivka, the company said 15 miners had been killed. It later revised the death toll down to at least 12. Elsewhere, a man and a woman were killed by a drone strike in the central city of Dnipro, Ganzha said. He also reported that a 72-year-old man had been injured in Nikopol. Separately, a 59-year-old woman was seriously wounded by shelling in Kherson, while three others were injured in a strike in Kharkiv, officials said. Moscow launched a wave of targeted attacks on Ukraine's power grid in January, leaving millions without heating or electricity during an extraordinarily cold winter - with temperatures forecast to plunge below -20C in places. US President Donald Trump had said on Thursday that Putin had agreed to halt aerial attacks on towns and cities including Kyiv during the cold snap. The Kremlin later said the pause would expire on Sunday. Also on Sunday, Ukraine said it was working with Elon Musk's SpaceX to stop Moscow using the firm's Starlink satellite system for drone attacks. Kyiv's military relies on the system for internet connection, but said this week it had found Starlink terminals on long-range drones used by Russia. Musk said steps to stop the "unauthorised" use appeared to have worked, while Defence Minister Mykhailo Fedorov thanked him for being "a true friend of the Ukrainian people". Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said a second round of three-way talks to end the fighting - nearly four years after Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine - would take place on Wednesday and Thursday, rather than Sunday as had been planned. He earlier said the talks in the United Arab Emirates between Russian, Ukrainian and US officials may have to be postponed due to ongoing tensions between the US and Iran. Negotiations on a peace plan have for months been mediated by the US, with a key sticking point being Ukraine ceding territory to Russia. Moscow currently controls around a fifth of Ukraine, including most of the eastern Donbas region. It wants Kyiv to hand over the areas of the Donbas it has not yet taken by force, while Ukraine reportedly wants Russia to hand back control of its largest nuclear power plant in Zaporizhzhia. Additional reporting by Richard Irvine-Brown, BBC Verify A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
It's not the electricity cuts that Yulia Hailunas struggles with most after the Russian airstrikes. It's the fact that it's so bitterly cold inside her own home. Like so many Ukrainians, she's had no central heating since Russia launched a wave of targeted attacks on the power grid in January. So Yulia now lives in a long, quilted coat and hat in her flat, and rests her feet on a saucepan-full of hot water to keep them from freezing. If that's not enough, she lifts weights for 10 minutes to get warm. When the weather outside is above zero, it's just about bearable. But later this weekend, the temperature in Dnipro is forecast to plunge below -20C. In Kyiv and elsewhere, it could be colder still. "That's what's really scary, because all the heating pipes will burst and we won't be able to repair them again. It will be a catastrophe," Yulia worries. On Thursday, Donald Trump announced that Vladimir Putin had agreed to halt attacks on Ukraine's major cities during the "horrendously cold" snap, supposedly for a week. The US president called it "very nice" of his Russian counterpart to agree to an energy truce. But details were sparse from the start. The next day, the Kremlin clarified that Putin's burst of good will expires on Sunday, just as the coldest weather bites. There is usually a week or more gap between massive aerial attacks in any case, so it's unclear whether Russia has actually paused anything. There has been no major strike since 24 January, when hundreds of tower blocks in Kyiv lost power and heating. "It has been quieter for a bit, but I don't know if that's linked," a doubtful Yulia says, suspecting the strikes will restart at any moment. "I think Putin wants to turn people against their government, to have them say: 'Just give Russia anything to make this stop'," Yulia says. "He wants to break us, but it won't work." Ukraine's heating system is breaking down though. The Geneva Convention, the laws of war, bans attacks on infrastructure that cause excessive harm to civilians. But this is the fourth winter in a row that the energy grid has been targeted by Russia deliberately, leaving it more fragile and harder to repair after each successive strike. There were widespread power outages across western and central Ukraine on Saturday after a "technical disruption" affected power lines connecting its grid to those of Romania and Moldova, its government said. Engineers have been drafted in from Ukraine's national rail company and elsewhere, working around the clock to restore electricity, and to defrost and patch up the heating pipes that run beneath giant apartment blocks in Dnipro, Kyiv and beyond. An extended pause in strikes on the sector would provide a welcome break, but few Ukrainians trust Russia to deliver that. That's because, elsewhere, the deadly strikes have not stopped. On Friday, one person was killed and several injured when a bus in Kherson was hit by shelling, while there were multiple air raid warnings for drones. And all along the eastern frontline, the fighting is as intense as ever, still forcing civilians to flee their homes. In Pavlohrad, about 40 miles from the front, we found families dazed after evacuating, abandoning everything, with no idea whether they'll ever go back. They were queuing to register at a centre for the displaced, offered a small handout of cash, food and toiletries by volunteers. Kateryna cried as she told me how hard it had been to leave Vasylkivka, where she had lived all her life. "It's like abandoning a piece of yourself," she said. But she had to protect her two young children, scared by the explosions. "Our village wasn't touched at first, but now it's a total combat zone. The drones are hitting every day," her mother Iryna described the Russian advance. "One day there were 50 Shahed drones overhead." Trump sees the energy truce - a halt to massive aerial attacks on Ukraine's big cities - as a way of reducing tension as he pushes for progress in peace talks. He pledged to end this war "in a day" long ago but now admits doing so is difficult. Ukraine has agreed to mirror Moscow's actions by halting its own strikes on oil refineries in Russia and its shadow fleet of tankers that move Russian oil around the world, evading sanctions. The trade pumps vital money into Russia's war economy, but Kyiv wants to show Trump its willingness in his peace efforts. Another round of negotiations is scheduled to take place in the United Arab Emirates on Sunday, though it seems no senior US delegates will attend. The US has been talking up progress and Ukraine also claims only one major disagreement remains – albeit a critical one, over control of territory in the east. But Russian officials have been dampening expectations of a deal. "Of course we are following the talks, we want some stability," Iryna tells me people here long for peace more than anyone. "But how can we trust Russia not to stab us in the back?" From the dark and the cold of this war, it does feel to Ukrainians like Moscow is just toying with Trump. The next days and weeks will test that. Additional reporting by Mariana Matveichuk and Paul Pradier A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Black Sea is littered with deadly weapons. But no-one knows how many – or where they are. "When we approach it, we should be quiet, we should be slow – and we should be very accurate," says Vitalii, wiggling his hand in a snake-like motion, as he describes swimming through dark waters towards the explosive devices resting on the sea floor. The tall, softly spoken 31-year-old Ukrainian Navy diver is part of a team of 20 tasked with de-mining the parts of the Black Sea still under Ukraine's control. Mines are some of the most insidious and long-lasting legacies of war. They remain active, and deadly, for decades; the ones at sea present additional risks, as they can drift with currents and storms. The sea mines laid by Moscow at the start of the full-scale invasion – when Russian ships approached Odesa – are no different. And the danger is not theoretical: last summer, three swimmers were killed by mines off the Odesa coast. The commander of the navy's mine countermeasures group – a wry, sharp-eyed young man who goes by the callsign Fox – estimates the number of sea mines is in the thousands. But they are not the only danger lurking underwater. Missiles, artillery shells, bombs and land mines were washed downstream to the sea when the Kakhovka dam was blown up in 2022. These too could be triggered to explode at any minute. "If we speak about unexploded ordnance in general - missiles, artillery shells, aerial bombs - the total number will be many times higher" than several thousand, Fox says. His team's work is as perilous as it is vital. Despite the scale of the contamination, sea traffic has not come to a halt, and a significant number of merchant ships are still operating in the only maritime export corridor out of Ukraine. For Ukraine, the effort to clear the seabed is part of a broader attempt to keep the ports on the Black Sea usable, particularly by commercial ships that bring in a stream of much-needed revenue. Aided by a huge army, on the front line Moscow manages to just about hold the upper hand, but at sea, Ukraine has succeeded in evening out the playing field. Sitting in a café overlooking the Gulf of Odesa, navy spokesman Dmytro Pletenchuk gestures towards the expanse of sea beyond the window. "There is parity in the maritime domain at the moment," he says. "We find new ways to strike them; they look for ways to counter us. What works today will not work tomorrow - on both sides. They adopt our experience; we adopt theirs." Ukrainian ships cannot move further than the area surrounding Odesa due to Russian control of much of the coast. And Moscow has too seemingly reached the conclusion that moving ships out of many of its naval bases in the Black Sea is too big a risk, as they would be within reach of Ukrainian aerial strikes. In 2024, Russia withdrew its last remaining patrol ship from occupied Crimea. "While Russia may have an advantage on land and in the air, it does not at sea," he adds. "Here, Russia's main tactic - mass - does not work." "Naval warfare is technological. You cannot overwhelm an area with 'meat'," Pletenchuk says, using the term to refer to the sheer number of soldiers at Russia's disposal. The stalemate at sea has allowed Ukraine's sea exports to continue, and a so-called grain corridor to remain operational. Maritime exports account for over two-thirds of Ukrainian agricultural exports, which some reports say add up to roughly $9bn. It is an essential source of revenue for Ukraine. Although aerial attacks remain a regular reality, vessels continue to navigate in the area. "Judging by the fact that vessel traffic has not decreased, [commercial companies] are willing to take these risks," Pletenchuk says, pointing to two large ships cruising silently on the horizon. Now, keeping the shipping routes viable also depends on removing the threat beneath the surface. Mines and unexploded ordnance are still a passive tool Russia can use to disrupt maritime traffic, even without controlling the Black Sea itself. That is where divers like Vitalii come in. "We move carefully and extremely slowly so that the mine does not detonate," Vitalii says, describing the painstakingly slow process of demining. "One second you move, then you stay still for some time, and you repeat this until you reach the object. "Generally, it's up to 20 meters before [we reach] the object, so you can try to imagine how long it takes to approach it." But before the underwater de-mining mission can even begin, Vitalii's group needs to identify the object, as missiles and a wealth of World War Two unexploded bombs sit on the seabed alongside Russian sea mines. Commander Fox explains that mines generally fall into two categories: contact mines, which detonate when struck, and influence mines, which explode when sensors detect changes in sound, pressure or magnetism. "Usually, the acoustic sensor is on duty," he says. "If it hears noise, it can activate another sensor." Large commercial ships are particularly vulnerable to magnetic mines, which respond to changes in the magnetic field. "The mine lies on the bottom and explodes when a big vessel approaches," says Fox, mimicking two magnets snapping together. "Until that moment, it just waits." Two divers approach each device in total silence, using closed-circuit rebreathers that produce no bubbles. Once a mine is identified, the actual detonation often takes place the following day. The sensors, Vitalii says, are first disabled using a series of controlled explosions with the first done from about 10 meters away. Only then can divers approach the device itself. The final decision - whether to move the mine or destroy it in place - is taken by headquarters. This surgical operation takes two days, several boats, and the work of 20 people - all operating under the constant threat of Russian missiles and drones, both aerial and seaborne, which could easily trigger the mines. During air strikes, GPS signals are scrambled, making sonar readings imprecise. De-mining the sea is not impossible, but doing so in the middle of active combat ramps up the risk considerably. "Everything can go wrong", Fox says. Vitalii nods. Once, he recalls, as he was approaching a mine using sonar, another object appeared on his screen, moving slowly through the darkness. His first thought was that it could be a Russian underwater drone, and that the mine would detonate. Then, he turned and saw four or five dolphins swimming past. "Beautiful, yes," he says, his eyes widening. "But not at that moment." According to Pletenchuk, in 2025 the de-mining group neutralised more than 50 mines - a fraction of the total. In 2023 the British Navy gifted Ukraine two mine-hunting vessels that could speed the work up – but because large ships in the Black Sea are an easy target, they are still stationed in the UK and won't be deployed until a ceasefire has been agreed. Two years after the vessels were handed over, that possibility still seems remote. In the current conditions, Vitalii says, clearing the seabed will take dozens of years. Despite the risks, revenue from maritime exports will only grow more essential for Ukraine the longer the war continues. And so divers like Vitalii will keep going back into the water, alternating movement and stillness as they swim towards danger. Additional reporting by Liubov Sholudko A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine has seen a relatively quiet night after Donald Trump said his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin had agreed not to attack Kyiv and "various towns" during a cold snap. The Kremlin confirmed it had agreed to cease attacks on Kyiv until Sunday to "create favourable conditions" for peace talks. While the US president did not say when the pause would begin, air raid alerts sounded in just eight Ukrainian regions overnight into Friday, with two minor injuries recorded in Zaporizhzhia. Temperatures in the capital, Kyiv, are due to plummet to -24C (-11F) over the coming days. Russia has recently intensified attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure, as it has during cold periods since its invasion began. Ukrainian officials had been expecting a major attack this weekend ahead of the current cold spell - if that does not take place, it could mark a significant step in US-led efforts to bring the war to a close. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Friday that Putin had called a halt to strikes on Kyiv "for a week until 1 February" at the personal request of Trump. That date is just two days away. He made no mention of the cold weather and refused to be drawn on whether Russia would refrain from targeting energy infrastructure, instead portraying the agreement as an effort to facilitate US-mediated peace negotiations. While the last few nights have been quiet for the capital, there have been 530 air raid alerts in Kyiv this week, according to one monitor. Ukraine's air force said more than 100 drones and a ballistic missile were fired at regions near the front line overnight. But, as of Friday morning, there have been no fresh attacks on electricity or heating infrastructure crucial for keeping people warm. Trump told a televised cabinet meeting in Washington DC on Thursday: "I personally asked President Putin not to fire into Kyiv and the various towns for a week, and he agreed to do that." He added: "It was very nice. A lot of people said, 'Don't waste the call, you're not going to get that.' And he [Putin] did it." The US president said of the Ukrainians: "Almost they didn't believe it, but they were very happy about it because they are struggling badly." Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky later wrote on social media that Trump had made an "important statement" about "the possibility of providing security for Kyiv and other Ukrainian cities during this extreme winter period". He told reporters on Friday that there had been no "direct dialogue or agreement" with Russia to pause attacks on energy infrastructure, but that Kyiv would act in kind if Moscow did so. Ukraine has targeted oil depots and refineries within Russia in a bid to limit its ability to finance its invasion. Meanwhile, residents of Kyiv who spoke to the BBC expressed scepticism about the deal between Trump and Putin. "I don't believe that Putin will stop even for a week," said Olena. "We have seen so many talks and deals but, nevertheless, he continues to do what he wants." She added: "We have survived -20C recently, and if air strikes decrease even a little, then we'll overcome the next week as well." Meanwhile, Hennadiy said he too did not believe Russia would stop targeting Kyiv's energy infrastructure, but expressed hope that it would. "If we get a one-week respite, it will be good," he said. "These days, -30C is a catastrophe for us. Before it was OK and we could cope." Russian, Ukrainian and US negotiators met in the United Arab Emirates last week for the first trilateral talks since the war began in 2022. All sides described the talks as constructive, but while Zelensky said Russia pausing its attacks for the duration of the cold snap had been discussed, no agreement was announced. Instead, attacks continued, crippling the power supply to major Ukrainian cities, leaving millions without heating or electricity. Kyiv's Mayor Vitaly Klitschko has said 378 apartment blocks in the capital remain without heating. Electrical companies have been carrying out round-the-clock repairs, but their work can be quickly undone by Russian air attacks. Even when power is restored, the supply only lasts a few hours - enough to charge appliances but not to substantially warm up homes. A second round of peace talks was scheduled to take place in Abu Dhabi on Sunday, but may now be postponed and relocated due to "what's happening between America and Iran", Zelensky said. Trump has threatened Tehran with military action over a crackdown on nationwide protests that human rights monitors say have led to thousands of deaths, as well as its nuclear programme. Negotiations on a peace plan have been mediated by the US for months, with a key sticking point being Ukraine ceding territory to Russia. Moscow currently controls around a fifth of Ukraine, including most of the eastern Donbas region. It wants Kyiv to hand over the areas of the Donbas it has not yet taken by force, while Ukraine reportedly wants Russia to hand back control of its largest nuclear power plant in Zaporizhzhia. "We are not ready for compromises that violate territorial integrity," Zelensky said on Friday. "We will not hand Donbas or the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant to the Russians without a fight." Additional reporting by Ben Hatton A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A scheme which enables community groups to help refugee families settle and integrate into the UK could be widened out under new government proposals. The Community Sponsorship Scheme provides refugees with support from a group of residents who source affordable accommodation and help with essentials such as learning English and accessing work. The Pickwell Foundation in North Devon said it was helping co-design a proposal for named sponsorship, which would allow communities to choose refugee families they think will be a good fit with them without some of the current restrictions. The Home Office said further details would be "shared in due course". Susannah Baker, director for the refugee and asylum programme at the Pickwell Foundation and chair of the Community Sponsorship Alliance, said the scheme would "allow communities to choose who they wanted to welcome to the UK". She added the details are still yet to be worked out in terms of the timescale, the funding structure, the eligibility criteria and the countries it could welcome people from. "I would love to see humanitarian protection extended across the world to the people and places which most need it," Baker said. "Sponsorship alone cannot stop the boats, but what we do know is people don't make that journey unless they have to. "Named sponsorship is a safe way to come to the UK, not just in terms of the journey but also the communities into which they arrive." Baker hoped the number of people forced to take the more dangerous routes will reduce once the scheme expands. Khadeja Alamary, 38, arrived in the UK with her husband and three children in 2017 after fleeing Syria and living in camps in Jordan for four years. "The bombs were everywhere. We spent one week in the basement which wasn't fit for humans. It was really scary," she said. The former teacher was given the option to resettle in North Devon under the UK resettlement scheme. Her children are in school, her husband has retrained as an electrician and she is working for the Pickwell Foundation helping other refugees settle into a new life in the area. Alamary said: "With each family coming over, I see myself arrive again. "I just remember how I really needed the care and the love and compassion. "I would like to help rebuild their life as the community rebuilt mine." Jane Kivlin, who is part of a group sponsoring one family in North Devon, said her role is to help with any health needs such as registering with a GP. "I don't think you can ever underestimate how difficult it is to make that decision to leave everything that is familiar and to come here," she said. "They have never complained, they have never made difficult demands and they have been very generous in hospitality." The government oversees the Community Sponsorship Scheme, which one of a  number of refugee resettlement programmes. In May 2025, Home Secretary Shabana Mamood said she hoped to build on this model. A Home Office spokesperson said: "As part of the most sweeping reforms to tackle illegal migration in decades, we are proposing transformative changes to safe and legal routes which will fundamentally reshape how we provide opportunities for refugees through sponsorship." The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. The four word phrase - first uttered by Labour Home Secretary John Reid - has become a by-word for incompetence. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two friends have returned to the west after delivering medical supplies to Ukraine in a second-hand ambulance. Stephen Ryder, 69, from Westbury in Wiltshire, and Winkie Fry, from Bruton in Somerset, drove from Dover to Lviv with the Mighty Convoy charity. Ryder told BBC Radio Wiltshire people in Lviv met them with "warmth and stoicism" and said he is now planning the next aid mission. He added: "You can stand around and wring your hands - or you can do something about it." The journey to Ukraine took 33 hours and involved them travelling through France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Poland. Mighty Convoy is a volunteer-run UK charity that delivers second-hand ambulances packed with medical supplies to Ukraine. It has donated 78 ambulances and 4x4 vehicles, which are used to transport wounded soldiers away from the front line. During the trip, Ryder and Fry met a young man called Oleksander who was treated with supplies provided by the pair. "He [Oleksander] was part of the special forces and had a great big wound formed by shrapnel in his back," Ryder said. "If it hadn't been for the medication we provided... he would not be here." Ryder also took letters from pupils at Westbury Leigh Primary School, where he is a volunteer, to give to schools in Ukraine. The pair also visited the military cemetery in Lviv. Ryder said: "The students used to have picnics there in the summer and now it's full of their graves." Now back in the UK, Ryder said he is fundraising towards his second trip. Volunteers need to raise £7,000 for every ambulance or vehicle they drive to Ukraine. Ryder added: "They need things out there which we can provide. Like 4x4s, tyres, ambulances and medical supplies." Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Town Council have issued a formal complaint to NHS England over a scrapped breast screening unit Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The bodies of 1,000 Ukrainian soldiers have been returned by Russia, Kyiv has said, in the latest exchange between the warring countries. Russia received 38 bodies in return, Moscow's chief negotiator Vladimir Medinsky said. Medinsky posted a photo on Telegram apparently showing the exchange, with individuals dressed in biohazard suits standing next to a line of white refrigerated trucks used to transport bodies. Kyiv and Moscow have exchanged thousands of soldiers' bodies over the course of the almost four-year conflict. The latest exchange took place under an agreement reached by the two sides during negotiations in Istanbul in 2025. Under that deal, Moscow and Kyiv agreed to return the bodies of 12,000 soldiers, as well as all sick and heavily wounded prisoners of war and those aged under 25. The last swap took place in November last year when Russia returned 1,000 bodies to Ukraine and received 30 in return. There has not been an exchange of prisoners of war since October 2025, with both sides accusing the other of stalling. As the fourth anniversary of the start of Russia's full-scale invasion in February 2022 inches closer, efforts at brokering a peace deal between the two countries continue. Last week, Russian, Ukrainian and US negotiators met in the United Arab Emirates for the first trilateral talks since the war began. The negotiations were described by all sides as constructive, but key territorial issues remain unresolved, including Russia's demand that Ukraine give up the 25% of the Donetsk region still under its control. Despite the ongoing negotiations, both sides continue to exchange drone attacks. At least five people were killed in Ukraine's Kharkiv region on Tuesday after a Russian drone struck a passenger train. Russia has intensified its strikes on key infrastructure targets in recent months, leaving many people in Ukraine to face freezing temperatures without heating or power. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Ukrainian soldier has described the moment a passenger train was targeted by Russian drones, killing five people. When a carriage on the train was hit in northeastern Ukraine, passengers threw themselves on the floor in panic and the military officer told them to get out immediately. Without his instruction, issued moments before the carriage burst into flames, many more passengers could have died. The officer, whose army call-sign is Omar, is part of Ukraine's 93rd brigade. He was among the passengers travelling on a route from Chop, on the border with Slovakia, to Barvinkove, the last stop before the front line in eastern Ukraine. The first of three Russian drones landed near the train, forcing it to come to a halt. "Then we heard the rumble of another drone, and then an explosion," Omar tells the BBC. "The blast was so strong that parts of the carriage shattered into splinters." As the commander of a drone unit, he quickly realised he and the other passengers had to get out as the train could get hit again. In all, 291 people were on the train at the time, officials say. "After the second hit, I understood that the drone operator was observing what kind of target it was hitting," Omar says, and a stationary train was an easy target. The carriage that suffered a direct hit quickly became engulfed in flames. "I am in the military and I am prepared for such attacks," says Omar. "But for others it was a shock to be so close to death." Many passengers evacuated the train in a state of deep distress, and videos from the scene show people screaming and crying as they move away from the smouldering wreck. It was too dangerous for such a large number of people to stay near the burning carriages, so he urged them to start moving towards a nearby motorway. He then went back to the train with some of the other passengers to check if anyone had been left behind. Inspecting the carriages, he saw a body and continued to look for survivors. Five people lost their lives in the attack. In the final carriage, Omar found a young woman with a baby. "She was very scared and had no idea what to do but thank God she was alive," he says. She barely had time to put on warm clothes, and screamed she needed to go back to the carriage to retrieve her suitcase and documents, the officer says. "I came here to bring my son," she told Omar as she was getting off the train. Later, Omar understood she had been travelling to the front line so that her soldier husband could see their child. The attack on the passenger train in Kharkiv region was condemned by President Volodymyr Zelensky as terrorism. It hit the heart of the railway system - a symbol of resilience in a country where the airspace has been closed since Russia launched its full-scale invasion in February 2022. Millions of Ukrainians rely on the 21,000km-long (13,000-mile) railway network to travel around the country and to cross the border into neighbouring countries, from which they can then catch flights. Although the railways have been targeted in the past, by and large Ukraine's Ukrzaliznytsia rail company has been able to keep people moving on its vast network - although escalating attacks on infrastructure and severe weather have led to increasingly long delays. Trains to the frontline city of Kramatorsk in the Donetsk region were eventually suspended last autumn, once the area became too dangerous due to sustained aerial Russian attacks. On Wednesday, flags flew at half-mast in railway stations across Ukraine. The daily minute of silence observed across the country was dedicated to the victims of the drone strike on the train. Hours after the attack had taken place, services were running again on the Barvinkove-Chop line. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The war in Ukraine is approaching the start of its fifth year, with a pause in peace talks and Russia attacking the country's vital energy infrastructure in the middle of a harsh winter. The first three-way peace talks between Russia, Ukraine and the US have ended with no apparent breakthrough and some debate as to when they will resume. The two-day sessions coincided with waves of Russian air strikes targeting Ukraine's energy infrastructure. Repeated strikes have crippled the power supply to major Ukrainian cities, leaving millions without heating or light as temperatures hover around -15C (5F) for the third week in a row. For those war refugees who have come seeking sanctuary in the UK, a major question is what would they do should the war come to an end? Svitlana Savinova is one of the 29,112 Ukrainians who have come to Scotland since 2022, out of a total of 310,000 across the UK. Her home town of Izyum was captured by Russian forces in the illegal invasion of March 2022. What has happened there has fundamentally changed the place she once called home. "My town is completely destroyed. Before the war, there was a population of 40,000. Now it's about 20,000," she says. "My town was so beautiful, green, and peaceful," she says – but since it was liberated by Ukraine's army six months after being taken by Russia, it's become what Svitlana calls a "military hub", being so close to the frontlines of the war. "I'm one of these millions of Ukrainian mothers who left the country with children," she says, referring to her daughter Maria, who is now 14. Svitlana's home was bombed in early March 2022 – leaving her with nothing. "I lost everything, and we just survived because my family and our neighbours were hiding in the cellar," she says. Since moving to Elgin, the family have attempted to rebuild their lives. Svitlana, an engineer in Ukraine before the war, has completed an HNC engineering course at University of the Highlands and Islands Moray, an opportunity she is very grateful for and one she wants to build on. She says Maria has become more fluent in English while also learning to play drums in the town's junior pipe band. Svitlana is clear – she sees her future in the UK, partly because her family are trying to establish themselves here and partly because she has no home to return to. She sees Scotland as their home now. "It's where my child is so happy and safe, and has everything for a good life," she says. "My land is inside my heart, but for all my life I will be so grateful to Scotland and the UK for this opportunity to live here peacefully in Elgin." The UK government says it is "fully committed to supporting Ukraine in its fight against Putin's illegal war, while also providing a safe and secure haven for those fleeing the conflict". It adds that, although extensions to refugee status in the UK have provided certainty for work and life in the UK, the scheme is temporary, in line with Ukraine's wish that its citizens return once the war ends. Peace talks have been ongoing for months, with renewed focus placed on them by Donald Trump's administration in Washington. What Ukraine may have to surrender is currently unclear, as are the conditions imposed on both sides of the conflict regarding security guarantees for the country's future. Before the war, Alex Sivko, from Kyiv, worked in private security after having been a professional boxer. He was part of the territorial defence in Ukraine, in which he helped during the first months of the war. In those initial months, millions evacuated Ukraine's capital, while Russian forces lost heavy numbers of troops in the fighting. "Before the war, it was an amazing life. My wife and I, we visited theatres, art galleries, cinemas. It was so nice," Alex says. He adds that in February 2022, "all our lives changed, for me and my family, and all Ukrainian citizens, in just one second." Alex was eventually given permission to leave Ukraine, because he had three young children, one born just weeks before the conflict started. Leaving his home city and country was "a hard decision" that the family had been preparing for over the course of a few months. Moving to Scotland had its difficulties too, he says, such as having to learn a new language and fit in with local habits. Most recently, Alex has been working with Forestry and Land Scotland, grading trees that will end up being planted across the country. His family have been getting more used to living in Elgin, with Alex even joking that his now four-year-old son Foma might feasibly consider himself Scottish. But there is a distinction between Alex and Svitlana. Alex is more open to the idea of going back to Ukraine. "My home is Ukraine because it's my motherland, I was born there. But my second home now is Scotland, where we feel happiness, where we feel comfortable," he says. "It depends on the situation in Ukraine. If the war finishes soon, we hope, we think, we will move home." But he adds one caveat - Russia's intentions. "Unfortunately, no-one can guarantee me and my family will be secure in our country with our northern neighbours," he says. Both Svitlana and Alex are considering their futures. More than 5.5 million people are believed to have fled Ukraine when the war started and the government in Kyiv wants them to return once peace returns. But the safety and prospects of their families is something that will be weighing on many of their minds. Strong winds battered the country on Saturday through the night, with a top wind speed of 73mph recorded in Buchan, Aberdeenshire. The annual race was created in honour of Queen Elizabeth II's platinum jubilee, honouring her favourite breed. A review of the front page stories from the daily newspapers in Scotland. Procurement for another new CalMac ferry begins but the GMB union says UK-based shipbuilders will struggle to compete with firms in "low-wage economies". Actor David Hayman looks back at the BBC drama which imagined Christ walking Glasgow's mean streets. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has condemned as "terrorism" a Russian drone attack on a crowded passenger train that local officials say killed at least five people and injured several others. More than 200 people were on the train, officials said, when one of the carriages was hit by a drone and two other drones exploded nearby, in Ukraine's north-eastern Kharkiv region on Tuesday. Zelensky said 18 people were in the carriage at the time and there was no "military justification" in targeting civilians. Russia has not commented on the strike, but it has intensified drone and missile attacks on Ukraine's energy and transport infrastructure during the harshest winter in years. Elsewhere in Ukraine, the southern port city of Odesa was hit by dozens of drones and officials said three people were killed and dozens more wounded. Energy officials said a local facility had suffered "enormous damage" overnight into Tuesday and Odesa city chief Serhii Lysak said attacks had continued for a second night into Wednesday. Meanwhile, in the Kyiv region, a couple were killed and their four-year-old child was hurt when a residential block of flats was hit in a district close to the capital, police said. Millions of people across Ukraine have been left without heating, electricity and water after the Russian assaults. Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion in February 2022, and Moscow currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory. In a post on social media late on Tuesday, Zelensky wrote: "In any country, a drone strike on a civilian train would be considered in exactly the same way - purely as terrorism." Pictures and footage released by Ukraine's emergency services show at least one badly destroyed carriage still burning after the attack. Kharkiv's regional prosecutor's office said the train was struck near the Yazykove village. The office said the train was heading from the western border town of Chop to Barvinkove in the Kharkiv region via the regional capital Kharkiv. This line runs further east to the Donetsk region, and is used by local residents and Ukrainian soldiers travelling to and from leave, as well as their wives and girlfriends travelling east to see them. Officials in Odesa said Russia had launched more than 50 drones on the port overnight into Tuesday. Three bodies were found in the rubble after several floors of one residential building collapsed after the strike, and a number of other buildings were damaged. Russia's daily aerial assaults continue even though Ukraine-Russia talks last week held the latest round of talks aimed at ending the war. The talks that also involved US negotiators took place in the United Arab Emirates, and were hailed by all sides as constructive. However, key territorial issues remain unresolved, and further meetings are expected this weekend. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A semi-retired builder is making his biggest trip yet to Ukraine to deliver a fleet of vehicles to support the war effort. Bruce Burrow from Newnham-on-Severn, Gloucestershire, is setting off on the 2,000 mile journey to the Army Veterans Volunteer Centre in Cherkasy. He has already been out to Ukraine several times to deliver food and supplies but this time he is leading a convoy of five vehicles which will be used on the front line. Burrow said he was "determined to do something to help" and that these vehicles will "make a terrific difference". Burrow said he was inspired to help as soon as the war started almost four years ago. "I think it affected me as it affected a lot of people, really quite a shock", he said. In his first trip to the country he took around 2.5 tonnes of food and supplies over to the Romanian-Ukrainian border and distributed it amongst the refugees. He said: "People there were so welcoming. "I asked this Ukrainian guy whether I could park in a field out there and he said, no, park in my garden and invited me to his house, got the vodka out," Burrow added. During his time there he realised one of the things they did want was vehicles and that he thought that was something he could help with and a few months later he took the first few vehicles across. This time he will be joined by two medics, Philip Pritchard and Alison Green, who both offered to cover the cost of the journey, accommodation and then a flight home for the three of them. The team are going against travel advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office which states that there is an ongoing risk of harm to British nationals from Russian attacks across all of Ukraine and advices against all travel to a large part of the country. Burrow has sourced all the vehicles, including two Ford Ranger pick-up trucks, locally with the help of friends and family. "They've been really generous and I can only afford these which are nearly 20-year-old vehicles, but they are pretty reliable," he said. Burrow added the "effort that the Ukrainian people have shown, the determination, the tenacity is incredible". "So I really feel that this is just a small thing that I can do that is of some help". Follow BBC Gloucestershire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. Zac Summers-Cameron died in 2025, aged 22, after his testicular cancer was originally misdiagnosed. Lester Murphy says he wants to inspire others who have been diagnosed the neurological disorder. A collection of photos from Bristol, Somerset, Wiltshire and Gloucestershire in early spring. Councils are considering permanent options as replacing scaffolding would cost £600,000. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A woman who was forced to flee war-torn Ukraine has said graduating from university in the UK felt "incredibly special" after what she and her family had been through. Sofia Demkiv left her home in Kyiv with her mother, aunt, sister and brother following Russia's invasion almost four years ago. They arrived in the UK in April 2022 and were eventually settled in Stoke-on-Trent as part of the government's Homes for Ukraine scheme. Demkiv later started a master's degree in marketing at Keele University and she graduated with distinction on Wednesday. The 23-year-old said it was the first time in her life she felt "truly proud" of her academic achievements. "Knowing the journey my family and I have been through, and how much heart and soul I put into my studies at Keele under such difficult circumstances, makes this moment feel incredibly special," she added. Demkiv was 19 years old when Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 and the family decided to leave for the UK after hearing explosions in the distance. "It was an incredibly scary and stressful time," she said. "I was just starting my adult life when suddenly we had to pack everything up and move to a new country with no idea whether we would ever return home or even whether our home would still exist." Demkiv visited Kyiv in October and said it was "impossible to describe the atmosphere unless you experience it yourself". "People have sadly become used to the situation," she said. "While I felt scared and anxious, residents are now surprised if there isn't at least one attack a week." She said while she hoped to move back to Ukraine eventually to raise a family, the UK had given her "so much" and she treasured the feeling of safety she had. "I love the UK and I'm incredibly grateful for the support we've received," she added. "I never could have imagined this level of kindness when we arrived. "It's something I'll remember forever and I hope one day I can repay it in some way." Following her graduation, Demkiv said she would be trying to gain further work experience and pursue a career in the financial technology sector. Follow BBC Stoke & Staffordshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Members of the UCU union will take further action this month in a dispute over spending cuts. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An exhibition telling the stories of eight Ukrainian women now living in the UK hopes to shine a light on the ongoing conflict in their home country as well as raise money for aid efforts. Put together in Warwickshire by the Leamington Spa-based community organisation Belveder, Voices of Ukraine will be at the All Saints Parish Church from 3 February to 3 March. Alongside the stories, written out as full testimonies, there will be photographs of the women and their families, alongside a collection of unseen photographs from when the war began in 2022. Funds raised will help the organisation pay for an ambulance to deliver resources to Ukraine. "We wanted to do something with a permanence to it," said volunteer Oliver Ansell-Hodges. "We settled upon some kind of exhibition… to raise awareness with British people… that four years on, the war is still going on and, from different media outlets we've spoken to, friends and family we've spoken to, they're all asking the same question which is: 'What's going on over there?'" "We wanted to understand their lives in Ukraine, the journeys that led them to coming to the UK, how they got out of Ukraine during a humanitarian and refugee crisis," Ansell-Hodges said. "Then the lives that they've set up now in the UK, alongside what their aspirations are... and their musings on both the war itself and messages of complete gratitude to British people for what they've done. "It's extremely important that Brits understand the level of trauma and the level of difficulty and hardship that these ladies had to endure." The women came from all over Ukraine and are now scattered around the county, in places like Warwick, Kenilworth and Leamington. The war started in February 2022 when Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered his troops to invade Ukraine. Ansell-Hodges has been a volunteer at the organisation since June 2024 and is leading on the exhibition. Belveder is the charitable branch of the town's Polish centre and is currently looking to secure charitable status. "Given their close heritage links to the Polish centre, when the war in Ukraine started four years ago, they became heavily involved in different humanitarian efforts to try and assist their neighbours [in Ukraine], their brothers and sisters, in any way possible," he said. "We've sent 60 ambulances and SUVs of different sorts from the UK, from the West Midlands, over to Ukraine - be it the border between Poland and Ukraine or into Ukraine itself. "I believe we're now up to well over 300 tonnes of aid." "Admittedly from what we've seen on a humanitarian basis, it's very dire; I have a lot of dear friends in Ukraine currently living in minus 10 conditions," Ansell-Hodges told the BBC. Money raised by the exhibition will help with their efforts for people in need. "We're hoping to raise money for an ambulance and to be able to fully stock it and deliver it, so we've ran the figures and it costs about £10,000 to purchase an ambulance, repair it… to stock it with things from tourniquets to field stretchers, incontinence pads for the elderly, Easter chocolate for some of the kids in the orphanage," he said. The exhibition will be at the church from 3 February to 3 March, opening from 14:00 to 17:30 GMT on Mondays, 10:30 to 17:30 on Tuesdays to Saturdays and 13:00 to 17:30 on Sundays. Follow BBC Coventry & Warwickshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. Two people are arrested after the body of a man in his 50s was found in a road. Take a look at these delightful photos of the West Midlands we have been sent this week. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. It will support initiatives that improve quality of life and enhance local communities. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The first three-way peace talks between Russia, Ukraine and the US have ended in Abu Dhabi with no apparent breakthrough, as fighting rages. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky raised the possibility of a second meeting as early as next week, while an American official said a new round would begin on 1 February. The two-day talks ended after waves of Russian air strikes targeted Ukraine's badly damaged energy infrastructure, killing one person and injuring 35 others, Ukrainian officials said. Russia accused Ukraine of attacking an ambulance in Ukrainian territory under its control, killing three medics. Later, it reported a Ukrainian missile attack on energy infrastructure in Belgorod. The BBC could not independently verify the reports. The talks in Abu Dhabi were the first trilateral meeting since the Kremlin launched its full-scale invasion of its neighbour in 2022. "The central focus of the discussions was the possible parameters for ending the war," Zelensky posted on X. "I highly value the understanding of the need for American monitoring and oversight of the process of ending the war and ensuring genuine security." All sides had agreed to "report back to their capitals" and co-ordinate further steps with their leaders, he added. "We've agreed that the next round begins next Sunday in Abu Dhabi again," an unnamed US official told reporters. The decision to hold further talks was a "good sign" and and "a lot of work" had been done over the two days of negotiations, the official added. The Russian state news agency Ria-Novosti reported that Moscow remained open to a continuation of dialogue with Ukraine and the US. Vitali Klitschko, mayor of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, said one person had died and four had been wounded by Russian air strikes on Friday night, while the mayor of the city of Kharkiv reported that 31 people had been hurt there. Kyiv's critical infrastructure was damaged, Klitschko said, leaving 6,000 buildings without heating. Temperatures have fallen to around -12C in parts of Ukraine. Zelensky said for his part that "the main target of the Russians" had been the energy infrastructure. In Kharkiv, Mayor Ihor Terekhov said a maternity hospital and a hostel for displaced people had been damaged. Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andrii Sybiha said the "brutal" Russian attack - "cynically" ordered by President Vladimir Putin - had "hit not only our people, but also the negotiation table". He said the "barbaric" overnight assault proved "that Putin's place is not at the board of peace, but at the dock of the special tribunal". Meanwhile, Russia accused Ukraine of a "barbaric crime against the civilian population" of Kherson region, which is partially under Russian control. Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said a clearly marked ambulance carrying a medical team from the Oleshky central district hospital had been attacked by a Ukrainian drone at the entrance to the village of Hola Prystan. All three medics inside were killed, she said. "We emphasise that attacks on civilian medical transport are prohibited by international humanitarian law," she added. On Saturday evening, the governor of Belgorod, Vyacheslav Gladkov, reported that Ukraine had launched its biggest bombardment yet on the city, which lies across the border from Kharkiv. Energy infrastructure was damaged, Gladkov said, but no casualties were caused. US President Donald Trump said last week that Putin had accepted an invitation to join his Board of Peace - an organisation focused on ending global conflicts. Putin has not confirmed this. Russia occupies roughly 20% of Ukraine, including parts of the eastern Donbas region. The Kremlin wants Ukraine to hand over large areas of the territory, but Ukraine has ruled this out. In Davos, Zelensky said: "It's all about the land. This is the issue which is not solved yet." He said that he had reached an agreement with Trump on future US security guarantees for Ukraine in the event of a deal. He gave no detail but said it would need to go before US Congress and the Ukrainian parliament before signing. The day before the talks in Abu Dhabi began, US special envoy Steve Witkoff and Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner met Putin in Moscow. After the four-hour meeting, Kremlin aide Yury Ushakov said: "Vladimir Putin has emphasised Russia's sincere commitment to settling the Ukraine crisis by political and diplomatic means." But he said "bringing about a lasting settlement would be unlikely without addressing the territorial issue based on the formula as agreed in Anchorage". Last August, Trump and Putin met in Anchorage, Alaska to discuss ending the war, resulting in an agreement to allow Russia to take the Donbas region and keep control of the Crimean peninsula, which it annexed in 2014. Zelensky ruled out giving up the Donbas which is made up of Luhansk and Donetsk and is mostly occupied by Russia. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine is now living through its most difficult winter in recent memory. With January temperatures plummeting below -15C, Russia has been attacking energy infrastructure, leaving about a million Ukrainians without heating. The capital, Kyiv, is the main target of such attacks. Following the latest Russian bombardment overnight into 24 January, almost 6,000 apartment blocks were left without heating, according to mayor Vitaly Klitschko. This is the third such Russian attack targeting Kyiv's heating infrastructure in little more than two weeks, after strikes on 9 and 20 January also left hundreds of thousands freezing in their flats. "Living in Kyiv is a bit of a gamble these days," one resident of the Ukrainian capital, Rita, told the BBC. "If you have heating and gas, there is no electricity and water. If you have electricity and water, there is no heating. "Coming home is like playing a guessing game every day - will I be able to shower or have hot tea, or neither? And of course missiles and drones come on top of all that." She says she has to go to bed wearing a hat and several layers of clothing. What is making things much worse for Ukraine and easier for Russia is the widespread prevalence of apartment blocks that rely on communal central heating - where water is heated up elsewhere and then pumped into their radiators. Heating plants in Ukraine are huge and many thousands of people are affected when they are targeted by Russian forces. Ukraine says that all such power plants have now been hit. Such attacks also disrupt electricity supplies, but while a generator or battery pack might help in this situation, heating is less straightforward - especially when there is also no electricity to power your heater. Kyivteploenergo, the monopoly supplying heating and hot water in the Ukrainian capital, told the BBC "the absolute majority" of houses in Kyiv rely on its services. It said it could not share the exact number for security reasons. In Zaporizhzhia, a frontline city home to 750,000 people, almost three-quarters of residents rely on central heating, according to Maksym Rohalsky, the head of the local association of apartment block dwellers. Before Russia's full-scale invasion of 2022, about 11 million households in Ukraine relied on central heating, compared to seven million autonomously heated households, Ukrainian energy expert Yuriy Korolchuk said. Cities across the Soviet Union, including in Ukraine, were the focus of huge construction programmes launched in the 1950s to mass produce cheap housing. The landscapes of cities in the former USSR are dominated by ubiquitous nine-storey residential buildings made from pre-fabricated concrete panels, known as "panelki", or smaller five-storey blocks of flats known as "khrushchevki", after Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev, who oversaw their construction in the 1950s and 1960s. Heating to such houses is supplied by large plants known as TETs - an acronym that stands for "heat and electricity centrals" in Ukrainian as they generate electricity as well as heat. Detached houses occupied by a single family, known as "private houses" in Ukraine, are normally found in rural areas and are rare in cities. "Ukraine inherited the Soviet heating system and it hasn't changed anything, it stays predominantly centralised," Korolchuk told the BBC. "These heating plants were not designed to be attacked with missiles or drones, that's why these vulnerabilities came to the fore during the war." According to him, this is a new tactic used by Russia. "During the previous winters, there were no such strikes against the heating system. They happened only occasionally, and they didn't directly target heating plants," he added. Referring to ongoing talks to end the war, he says "the factor of negotiations is now possibly playing a role, it's a form of pressure". Large centralised installations bring about efficiencies of scale, but should they be targeted by bombs or drones, the consequences can be devastating for hundreds of thousands of people. The Ukrainian government is acutely aware of this vulnerability, and is planning to reduce it by making individual heating points mandatory at apartment blocks. However, undoing decades of Soviet urban planning will not be quick or easy. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russian, Ukrainian and US negotiators have held talks in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) - the first meeting attended by all three countries since Moscow launched its full-scale invasion nearly four years ago, officials say. US officials told NBC News the talks were "productive" and would continue on Saturday, while Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said it was too early to draw conclusions from them. They follow a long meeting between President Vladimir Putin and US envoys in Moscow, which Russia described as "useful". However, the key sticking point remains territorial issues, including Russia's demand that Ukraine give up the 25% of the Donetsk region, which Kyiv still controls. In a statement posted on X on Friday evening, Zelensky said that "a conversation has already taken place" with the American and Russian delegations, and that his representatives were reporting to him every hour. "The main thing is that Russia must be ready to end this war, which it itself started. Ukraine's positions are clear. I have defined the framework for dialogue for our delegation," he said. "As for the substance of today's discussions, it is still too early to draw conclusions. We will see how the conversation develops tomorrow and what results it produces." Zelensky said last month that a 20-point US plan to end the war was 90% ready with Donbas, in eastern Ukraine, one of the outstanding issues. He has offered to withdraw troops by up to 40km (25 miles) from the region in order to create an economic zone in Donbas, if Russia does the same. The US proposal for Ukraine's industrial heartland in Donbas is for a demilitarised and free economic zone in exchange for security guarantees for Kyiv. The head of Kyiv's national security and defence council, Rustem Umerov, is leading the Ukrainian delegation in Abu Dhabi, along with Kyrylo Budanov, the head of Zelensky's office, and negotiator David Arakhamia. They are being joined on Saturday by the chief of the general staff, Andrii Hnatov. On the Russian side, the delegation in Abu Dhabi is being led by General Igor Kostyukov, director of Russia's GRU military intelligence agency, while investment envoy Kirill Dmitriev will meet US envoy Steve Witkoff separately to discuss economic issues. The three US representatives include Witkoff and US President Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner. They had previously met Putin and two other Russian aides on Thursday night. Kremlin aide Yuri Ushakov said those talks were "substantive, constructive and very frank", but reiterated that any agreement for durable peace would not be possible without resolving territorial issues. "Until this is achieved, Russia will continue to consistently pursue the objectives of the special military operation," he said. Witkoff last year said that Russia had agreed to allow the US and Europe to give Ukraine "robust" security guarantees as part of a potential peace deal. Ukrainian officials also attended the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, where Zelensky met Trump for what he described as "very positive" talks. He told reporters that they had reached an agreement on future US security guarantees for Ukraine in the event of a deal. Zelensky gave no details but said it would need to go before the US Congress and Ukrainian parliament before signing. Overnight Thursday to Friday, both Ukraine and Russia reported drone attacks. In messages posted on Telegram, Penza Oblast governor Oleg Melnichenko said a drone attack caused a fire at an oil depot in Penza, an area south-east of Moscow. In Ukraine, the general staff of the armed forces reported an air attack that saw drones hitting 12 locations overnight. Recent Russian strikes on key infrastructure targets have been leaving many people in Ukraine to face freezing temperatures without heating or power. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A white tiger "waking up with freezing fur" in war-torn Ukraine is still waiting to travel to his new home in the UK. Aleks was found abandoned last year in the Kharkiv region before he was taken to an animal shelter in Chubynske, near Kyiv. Lincolnshire Wildlife Park, near Boston, said all the paperwork had been completed and they were just waiting for his carrying crate to be arranged before he embarks on his journey to the park. Chief executive Steve Nichols said: "We've got the kettle on, we're waiting, we are ready and will get him here one way or another." Nichols said the animal rescue team in Ukraine was "working to their absolute limits" in the war environment. Aleks is currently living in a "concrete box with straw on the floor", as the rescue team did not expect the rehoming process to take so long, Nichols explained. "The poor people are trying their hardest just to stop the water from freezing. We feel so aware that we can't control that side of it," he added. Nichols said if Aleks was at the park, he would be "living a life of luxury" instead of "waking up with freezing fur". Before his rescue and treatment, the tiger was dehydrated, infested with parasites and exhausted, as well as having gastrointestinal, liver and kidney issues, the park said. In October, Nichols said the park was waiting for vets to check Aleks was healthy enough for the long journey across Europe. On Friday, he said: "We are at the stage where all we need is the dimensions of the carrying crate for Aleks so a vehicle can be allocated and a date." He said the park expected to be given a date "imminently" for when Aleks will be starting his journey across Europe. "I would say within the next three weeks he will be on the road here," he added. Aleks will be driven from Ukraine through Poland and northern Europe and then from Dover to his new home at Lincolnshire Wildlife Park. When he arrives, Aleks will go through a three-stage process to get him settled - initially in an indoor closure with a sleeping area, playroom and feeding room. With veterinary help, he will move to an outdoor enclosure before joining other tigers at the park. Listen to highlights from Lincolnshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices The annual race was created in honour of Queen Elizabeth II's platinum jubilee, honouring her favourite breed. A rescue charity says it will continue to monitor two swans at Cleethorpes Country Park. The large bronze work has been loaned to the Wiltshire safari park by guitarist Ronnie Wood. The release comes not long after the UK Wild Otter Trust had to move to a new base. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A handful of technicians closely monitor a wall of screens and dials in the control room at the Khmelnytsky nuclear plant – a vast facility in western Ukraine that's now vital to Ukraine's energy grid and its war effort. Ukraine is facing an acute energy crisis after months of relentless Russian attacks on its infrastructure. At least 60% of the country's electricity comes from the giant turbine halls at Khmelnytskyi and two other nuclear plants. Showing me around is Pavlo Kovtonyuk, the head of Energoatom - Ukraine's National Nuclear Energy Company. All these installations, he says, are under the very real threat of attack from Russia. "At present, Russia is trying to attack substations that connect nuclear power plants to the grid, to shut down nuclear energy," he tells me. "This is nuclear terrorism, because the connection between the systems and the nuclear power plant is what ensures their safe and reliable operation." Nuclear power stations are secure and sensitive installations where access to those not directly involved in their operation is heavily restricted. The BBC was given rare access to the plant to see how Ukraine is coping with Russia's intense attacks. Under nightly attack from hundreds of missiles and drones, Ukraine accuses Russia of targeting its critical energy infrastructure. President Volodymyr Zelensky says Moscow is deliberately exploiting the ferociously cold winter, leaving tens of thousands of people across Ukraine without power, heating or running water. Most of the country's conventional power plants have been hit or damaged in Russian airstrikes and that is why nuclear power plants like Khmelnytskyi are now providing most of the country's energy needs. But Ukraine's biggest power plant, on the southern stretch of the Dnipro River near Zaporizhzhia, has been controlled by Russia since the start of the war. Not only is it the biggest in Ukraine, it is also the largest nuclear power station in Europe, able to generate enough electricity to supply a country the size of Portugal. But Zaporizhzhia is now in "dormant" mode, not generating electricity and with Russian technicians and troops in charge of the plant. That's why the future of the Zaporizhzhia site is one of the most critical points of any possible future peace deal between Ukraine and Russia. Recent reports suggest Ukraine wants to control the plant 5050 with the US, with half the energy coming to them and the other half distributed by the US as it sees fit – perhaps even to Russia. On our tour of the Khmelnytskyi complex we met some staff, now employed here, who were working at Zaporizhzhia when Russia attacked on the night of 3 March 2022. Among them were Dariia Zhurba, a technician at the plant, and her engineer husband, Ihor. "It was scary. It was really frightening when they occupied. We were at home that night," Dariia told me. "We heard explosions, shooting… so we hid in our corridor, as the gunfire and explosions continued," said her husband. "In the morning, we realised we were occupied." The couple continued to work at the plant for a few weeks until things became "unbearable", as the Russians gradually took control of the operation. They were eventually able to leave, via occupied Ukraine, Russia, Belarus and Poland on a journey where everything they had, including their phones and possessions, were first of all scrutinised by their Russian captors. "They checked everything in our phones, connected them to special devices so they could search our contacts, all social media, even the things we'd 'liked'," said Dariia, now happy to be living in a small modular home provided by the Swedish government next to her new workplace. "They even interrogated us about who are relatives were, who had served in the Ukrainian army and who didn't." They escaped Zaporizhzhia. Others, less fortunate, did not. "We know cases where people were taken to the 'basement' where they were interrogated and things like that," says Ihor. "Basement" is often a reference to where people in the occupied territories were tortured. "There were also cases when other people were taken and then went missing," Ihor told me with a shrug of his shoulders. "I knew some of them - not close friends, but we worked at the same station." We've also been in touch with Ukrainian workers, still working at the Zaporizhzhia plant under Russian direction and control. Speaking over encrypted social media they paint a picture of a chaotic environment where "maintenance work on the equipment is practically not happening". Russian soldiers are present and military equipment is also being stored at the Zaporizhzhia complex, said our sources. Of most concern to plant workers, Energoatom managers and – ultimately – the wider world, is what happens if, as Moscow insists, the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant remains under Russian control in the event of a ceasefire agreement. Although the plant is not currently operational, its nuclear reactors still need to be maintained and cooled to prevent overheating and radiation levels rising. However, electrical substations that provide power to the plant, to help with cooling, have been damaged by the war. Also, Energoatom officials say, ponds that supply water for the cooling process have sometimes been allowed to run dangerously low by the Russians. Furthermore, four of Zaporizhzhia's energy blocks use American-made fuel systems – a transition begun by Ukraine in previous years. Yet Russian technicians are not trained nor would they able to operate those systems in the event of the plant being restarted, say Ukrainian officials. The head of Russia's Rosatom nuclear agency, Alexei Likhachev, insists Russia is maintaining the plant, adding that under Russian law no other operator is entitled to run it: "It is currently ensuring the plant's safe operation under the most difficult combat conditions." It is important to point out that officials from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) do, on occasion, cross into Russian-occupied territory to inspect the Zaporizhzhia plant. Under the protection of temporary ceasefires, the IAEA says it also supervises repair work to damaged power lines and the maintenance of critical cooling systems. In a statement released last week, the IAEA said it had sent a team from Vienna to the site to check on the latest repair works. "A deterioration of Ukraine's power grid from persistent military activity has direct implications on the nuclear safety of its nuclear facilities," said Director General Rafael Grossi in the statement. "The IAEA will, as a priority, continue to assess the functionality of these critical substations." Ukrainian officials, though, say Russia is dangerously neglecting the site and say a repeat of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster is a real threat. On 26 April 1986 a reactor at the Chernobyl nuclear plant in northern Ukraine exploded after a test went wrong. The disaster spread nuclear contaminants across Europe, and authorities have since built a giant dome to try to contain radioactive materials there. "In my view, it could be much worse than Chernobyl, because at Chernobyl there was an explosion of a single reactor unit with fuel," says Energoatom director Pavlo Kovtonyuk. The director is measured in his words because it a frightening prospect, adding "If Russia brings the situation to the point of core melting and melting of fuel in the spent fuel pools, the contamination could be greater [than Chernobyl]." "It would not be explosive, and it could be stretched out over time, but the contamination could be greater!" It is a sobering thought on which to end our visit to Khmelnytskyi and it is obvious to see why the immediate and long-term future of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear complex is such a contentious issue. There is evidence that Russia has already begun to build power lines away from Zaporizhzhia in the direction of occupied territories and Russia itself, in the event of the plant being restarted to generate electricity, under Moscow's control. That simply cannot be allowed to happen, say Ukrainian leaders and nuclear officials. Not only is Ukraine's own energy matrix and needs dependent on the Zaporizhzhia plant, but a nuclear accident along the lines predicted by some experts would have implications and repercussions far beyond these borders. Additional reporting by Firle Davies and Anastasia Levchenko. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. As war drives up gas and fuel prices, Europeans turn again to the issue of energy independence. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A large Russian aerial strike on Ukraine has left the Ukrainian parliament and half of Kyiv's residential buildings without heating or power as temperatures across the country continue to hover around -10C. President Volodymyr Zelensky, in his evening address on Tuesday, said one million people in the capital remained without power. Drones, ballistic and cruise missiles targeted several locations in Ukraine overnight, including Kyiv, Dnipro in the centre and Odesa in the south. Zelensky said earlier a "significant number" of targets had been intercepted. But he also said that, in terms of air defence missile prices alone, repelling that attack had cost Ukraine about €80m (£69m). Between Monday and Tuesday, at least four people died and 33 others were injured in strikes across Ukraine. Air raid alerts in Kyiv lasted most of the night. Sirens rang out later as Russian drones and cruise missiles approached the capital. On Tuesday morning, more than 5,600 residential buildings – each with dozens of flats – in Kyiv woke up to no heating. A large part of the capital also has no water. Mayor Vitalii Klitschko said almost 80% of those buildings had just had their heating restored following a large-scale attack on 9 January, which knocked out power for much of the city. Since then, relentless efforts by technicians had managed to reinstate electricity and gas for thousands - only for that work to be undone overnight. "I have no electricity and no water," Oleksandr Palii, a 29-year-old veteran, told the BBC. "I didn't sleep until 3am because of the strikes either – there were explosions all night." Parliament speaker Ruslan Stefanchuk said that, just like Ukrainian cities, the Verkhovna Rada was also without basic services of electricity, water and heating, and he called other parliaments not to remain silent. The Ukrainian president had been due to travel to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, on Tuesday but, in the wake of the overnight strikes, he said he had decided to stay in Kyiv. He would travel to Davos only if documents on security guarantees with the United States and a prosperity plan were ready to be signed, he added. Temperatures have stayed well below freezing since the start of the year. Ukrainian media has reported instances of radiators bursting due to the water in them freezing, leading to flooding in entire buildings. There have also been reports of fires starting due to people using gas heaters indoor. As the power cuts continue, Kyiv residents are finding innovative solutions to carry on living. Many now use portable stoves to cook, and entire buildings chip in to buy generators. But much depends on individual financial capacities. "I think people who are less well-off are coping much worse," says Olha Zasiadvovk, who has a young child. She and other parents have bought lamps and thermal containers for their children's kindergarten "so that when the kitchen has no electricity they can cook all the meals at once and store them." But if electricity is only available sporadically, she says, "the food doesn't keep very well. There were cases when food was cooked in the morning and by dinner the porridge had become completely solid." In recent days, videos have circulated on social media showing Ukrainians barbecuing in snowy yards and dancing to keep warm in the face of continued power cuts and freezing temperatures. But many say this is the worst winter since the start of the full-scale war in 2022, and with no end to hostilities in sight, nerves are frayed. "The resilience of the Ukrainian people cannot be an excuse for this war to continue. It must end as soon as possible," said Foreign Minister Andrii Sybiha‎ on Tuesday. The Kyiv city administration said more than 10,000 people, including nearly 800 children, took refuge in the city's metro stations on Monday night. Many of the high-rise buildings that are often hit by drones do not have shelters, so the deep metro system is still the only place people can seek safety as the thudding sounds of air defence systems ring overhead. President Zelensky said Ukraine had received missiles to repel the overnight attack on Monday, and added they had helped significantly. But he also emphasised the need for air defence systems was still critical. In a call with reporters, he said Russia was using "far more" ballistic missiles in its attacks and that Moscow's capacity to produce them had not been dented. "So far, this has not happened. That is why we need more missiles and more air defence systems," he said. A flurry of diplomatic activity in late 2025 gave rise to hope that progress was being made towards a peace deal with Russia. But on Tuesday Zelensky hinted at concerns that growing tensions between the US and Europe could be detrimental to Ukraine's ability to defend itself. As it stands, Kyiv's European partners are buying missiles from the US on Ukraine's behalf. "When it comes to [protection from] ballistic missiles, for now the key is in the hands of the United States of the America," he said. "It is very important that deliveries are timely, that production works, and that partners help us purchase the necessary missiles," Zelensky stressed. "In other words, a great deal in the security of Ukrainians depends on the unity of Europe and America." Additional reporting by Liubov Sholudko. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A retired silversmith has spent 18 months supplying thousands of candles to war damaged areas of Ukraine. Mark Stevens from Ludlow, Shropshire, collects the candles from churches and shops and uses the candle wax to make temporary stoves for the military and civilians. He said many communities in the country had electricity and heating cut off so the candles played an important role and could be used in shelters. "It's the idea of being in a cold dark space with no light, no heat and it's something very simple," he said. "People are throwing away candles every day so it's good recycling." Stevens has collected an estimated thousand kilos of used candles from cathedrals, churches and charity shops, so he can personally deliver them to the frontline. He has travelled to Ukraine four times so far and also sends the candles and cookers to the country via a charity. "This would heat a room," he said of one of the candles. "It could be used in a shelter somewhere." Stephens also supplies generators and even vehicles to the Ukrainians. "It's easy to ignore what's going on on our doorstep and the destruction and the waste and the environmental hazard that is being created by a war," he said. Church warden Lesley Harling said: "I think it's amazing. Apart from anything else, the sheer amount of work that goes into it." Many Ukrainian refugees live in Ludlow, with three of them working at the cafe at St Laurence's Church. "I really appreciate his work," said Yuliia Shapoval. "People need to feel like... somebody wants to help them." Follow BBC Shropshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A newborn baby hat appeal has been temporarily paused due to a logistical issue. After more than three years, Stand With Ukraine - Newborn Baby Hats Appeal (NBHA), said its logistic partner could no longer support their shipments to Ukraine and Latvia. The group said it was so grateful to the entire Guernsey logistics team for their "most incredible support". It said it was "immensely proud of all that our appeal has achieved" since March 2022 in Ukraine. "None of this would have been possible without the support of our dedicated supporters, volunteers, and partners, whose enthusiasm has helped to make the NBHA such a success." Follow BBC Guernsey on X and Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to channel.islands@bbc.co.uk. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. "We can't imagine why anyone would want to remove these bollard covers," says Carnon Downs crafter. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
From Mariia's 16th-floor flat, the calm waters of the Black Sea stretch out into the horizon beneath the fading twilight. "Up here you can see and hear when the drones come," she says, standing by a wall-length, floor-to-ceiling window. When they hit buildings and homes in the city of Odesa down below "we see all the fires too". Her daughter Eva, who is nine, has learned the shapes and sounds of the objects that zoom through the sky on a daily basis. She proudly shows off a list of social media channels she checks when the air raid alerts go off. "She knows whether what's coming is a risk or a threat, and that calms her down," her father Serhii says. There is scarcely a place in Ukraine that has not been targeted since Russia launched its full-scale invasion nearly four years ago. But in recent weeks Odesa – Ukraine's third largest city – has come under sustained attack. Through strikes on port and energy infrastructure, Russia is trying to cripple the region's economy and dent the population's morale. Moscow, however, does not just hit facilities. Its drones, most of them as big as a motorcycle, regularly crash into high-rise buildings like Masha's, exploding on impact and blowing glass and debris inward. The consequences are often deadly. "A few months ago Eva said she was afraid the drone would come too fast and we wouldn't have time to hide," Mariia says. "But I explained that if it came towards us, it would get louder and louder and then we'd know we have to run." Mariia, Serhii and Eva are originally from Kherson, a region 200km (125m) to the east of Odesa which is now in large part occupied by Russia. They left as soon as the invasion started in 2022 and mother and daughter briefly moved to Germany as refugees. But Serhii and Mariia could not bear the distance, so the family reunited in Ukraine and moved to Odesa. Now, as attacks on the region intensify, Serhii wonders whether the family should prepare to leave again. "War is only about economics, and Odesa for the Russians is about infrastructure, so they will do their best to conquer it," he says. Tucked in south-western Ukraine, Odesa was an economic powerhouse before the war. But now that Russia occupies the majority of Ukraine's coastline, the region has become even more vital. Its three ports are Ukraine's largest and include the country's only deep-water port. With land crossings disrupted, 90% of Ukraine exports last year were shipped by sea. But in wartime the region's importance is also its weakness. Last month, Vladimir Putin threatened to cut off Ukraine's access to the sea in retaliation for Ukrainian strikes on the "shadow fleet" tankers Russia uses to circumvent sanctions. That threat has translated into concrete impact. For two years, Russia's attempts to thwart Odesa's economy have been near-relentless - but the last few weeks have been particularly difficult. Aerial attacks on the ports have destroyed cargo and containers and damaged infrastructure; crew members on foreign merchant ships operating in the Gulf of Odesa have been injured or killed by drones; and 800 air-raid alerts in a year repeatedly halted port operations. The result last year was a 45% decrease in exports of agricultural products, vital to Odesa's economy. The day after a drone strike this week set a Panamanian-flagged ship alight and severely injured one of its crew members, regional government head Oleh Kiper said that shipowners entering Odesa ports "clearly understand that they are entering a war zone" and that the ships were insured. But if such attacks continue, in the long run foreign companies may be put off trading with the port. As the strikes surge, air sirens go off frequently, but not everyone heeds them. Standing in front of a destroyed gym the morning after an overnight drone strike that injured seven people, Maryna Averina of the State Emergency Service concedes people have become "very careless about their own safety". A recent air raid alert lasted for most of the day. "Sitting in a shelter for 16 hours is simply unrealistic," Averina says, as gym staff emerge from the destroyed building with whatever objects they have managed to salvage from the rubble and mangled metal inside. While many Ukrainians are now sadly accustomed to the drone and missile strikes, they are increasingly frayed by the relentless attacks that cut off electricity and heating in the middle of a particularly biting winter. In December, almost a million people in Odesa were left with no power. "We were among the first regions to experience what it means to go through the winter period without electricity and without heating," says Oleh Kiper. A month later, as temperatures hover around -1C, the supply remains severely disrupted. Ada, 36, is strolling on the beach, unfazed by the wail of air alert sirens mingling with the squawking of seagulls. The drone attacks have ramped up but, she says, "the shelling isn't as scary as this cold is". Nearby, a young mum named Yana agrees. Recently, she says, the situation across the board "has been really, really difficult". At one point, a drone crashed into her flat, and another one hit the block soon afterwards. Then came the power cuts. She and her family bought an expensive generator, but running it for seven hours costs around $10 - a significant expense in a country where the average monthly salary is around $500 (£375). "We've all been living like this for four years now, unfortunately. We're as helpless as flies, and everything is just being decided between the authorities," she says, while struggling to keep her shrieking toddler out of the icy water. "Maybe we're being punished for something – the whole nation, not just a few, but everyone." Further down the beach, Kostiantyn is fishing on a jetty stretching out into the sea. He says he is not worried about the Russians advancing to the city. "I don't think they'll make it here. [The Ukrainians] will break their legs first." But, he adds, things are painful, and scary. And like many Ukrainians he still seems to struggle to accept that war came to his country four years ago, waged by a neighbour he once knew so well. In his youth, Kostiantyn served in the army and swore an oath to the Soviet Union. "I never imagined that I would see something like this in my old age," he says. While Russian propagandists have long insisted that Ukraine's independence since 1991 is a historical mistake, Odesa's past role as the jewel in the crown of the Russian empire means it still holds particularly strong symbolic importance for Moscow. Vladimir Putin has repeatedly referred to Odesa as a "Russian city" and frequently invoked the notion of "liberating Novorossiya", a historical region of the Russian empire that encompassed parts of modern southern and eastern Ukraine, including Odesa. "They wanted and they still want to seize Odesa, just like many other regions, but today everything possible and impossible is being done by our military to prevent this from happening," insists the regional government leader. Oleh Kiper has made it a personal mission to sever any perceived remaining ties that Odesa has with Russia. He is a staunch supporter of a 2023 Law on Decolonisation, which directed local authorities to rid their cities of any street names, monuments or inscriptions that could be linked to Russia's imperial past. Among the statues to be removed was a monument to Russian Empress Catherine the Great, while streets named after Russian and Soviet figures were renamed. Pushkin Street became Italian Street, and Catherine Street is now European Street. Kiper also champions the usage of Ukrainian in a city where Russian is still widely spoken. Asked about the resistance he meets from Odesites who are proud of their heritage as a multicultural port to the world, he is defiant. "The enemy is doing far more than we are to ensure that a Russian-speaking city becomes Ukrainian," says Kiper. "It is forcing people to understand who the Russians are and whether we need them at all." The following day, as temperatures dropped to -6C, the city marked one month of partial blackouts, and air raid alerts were in force for four hours. The port of Chornomorsk, east of Odesa, was again hit by a ballistic missile, injuring a crew member on a civilian ship. As is the case with the rest of Ukraine, if Russia cannot have Odesa, it seems determined to continue crippling it. Additional reporting by Liubov Sholudko A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Zelensky has called Ukraine's air defence supplies "insufficient", having revealed several systems were "without missiles" until Friday morning. "I can say this openly because today I have those missiles," the president said, adding that Ukraine had received a "substantial package" earlier in the day. His comments follow days of intense Russian bombardment of Ukraine's energy infrastructure, leaving thousands of people without heating and electricity during a bitterly cold winter. Schools in Kyiv will shut until February, the capital's mayor has announced, as the city continues to face severe energy shortages amid temperatures which have dropped as low as -19C. Zelensky called on Ukraine's allies to provide "rapid deliveries" of available missiles, and said shipments did not mean "that winter will end for us tomorrow". "And it doesn't mean that tomorrow the enemy will stop bombing us," he wrote on social media. Ukraine relies on its Western partners for several vital air defence systems, which Zelensky said required "constant supplies of missiles". "Securing these packages takes enormous effort, blood, and human lives." He criticised countries that "stockpiled" such ammunition:  "If we are at war, we really need it. And in some countries, there is no war." On Friday evening, he said Ukraine had "intelligence information" that Russia was preparing for large-scale strikes. "Supplies are insufficient," he wrote on Telegram. "We are trying to speed things up, and it is important that our partners hear us." Earlier this week, Kyiv declared a state of emergency in its energy sector and appointed former prime minister Denys Shmyhal as energy minister to tackle the situation. Ukrainian officials also accused Moscow of deliberately exploiting an extraordinarily cold winter. Shmyhal told Ukraine's parliament on Friday that Moscow was "betting it can break us through energy terror", and ordered state companies to increase their energy imports. Thousands of energy workers are racing to restore power across the country through repairing plants and substations bombarded by Russian strikes. Kyiv's Mayor Vitali Klitschko said most of the capital had been left without heating and a "huge shortage of electricity" for the first time in the war. He told Reuters news agency that electricity levels had dropped to less than half of what was needed. Curfews in the city, introduced after Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, have been eased to allow residents to access emergency hubs providing heating and electricity. Klitschko had suggested earlier this week that residents should leave Kyiv if possible, to help ease pressure on critical resources. Also on Friday, Zelensky said Ukrainian negotiators were on their way to the US for further talks on a potential ceasefire. Saturday's talks in Miami, Florida will focus on security guarantees and a post-war recovery package for Ukraine, the country's ambassador to the US Olga Stefanishyna said. Ukraine's delegation will include the head of Zelensky's office, Kyrylo Budanov, and the secretary of Ukraine's national security and defence council, Rustem Umerov. Zelensky said he hoped the proposals would be signed with the US during next week's World Economic Forum meeting in Davos, Switzerland "if everything is finalised and if there is agreement from the American side". Separately, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said it had secured a localised ceasefire agreement between Ukraine and Russia to allow repairs to the last remaining back-up power line at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. The agency said work was expected to begin in the coming days at Europe's largest nuclear power plant in southern Ukraine, after the line was damaged by "military activity" on 2 January. Rafael Mariano Grossi, IAEA's director general, said there had been several incidents this week "in which military activity affected nuclear safety", adding that a deterioration of Ukraine's power grid had "direct implications" on nuclear safety. Meanwhile, Russian attacks continued on Friday, including in the central Ukrainian city of Nikopol, where officials said two people had been killed by "enemy artillery fire". Another six were injured, the officials added. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine has declared a state of emergency in the country's energy sector, with a particular focus on Kyiv, as ongoing Russian strikes continue to leave thousands of residents without power. President Volodymyr Zelensky accused Moscow of deliberately exploiting the harsh winter conditions as part of its war strategy, with overnight temperatures in Kyiv recently dropping to around -20C. The declaration comes as Zelensky's US counterpart Donald Trump said he was holding up efforts to secure a peace deal to end nearly four years of war with Russia. He told the Reuters news agency on Wednesday that Ukraine "is less ready to make a deal" than Russian president Vladimir Putin. When asked why peace talks have not yet resolved the conflict, Trump responded: "Zelensky". Trump's assessment drew approval from the Kremlin on Thursday, with spokesman Dmitry Peskov telling reporters: "President Putin and the Russian side remain open [to talks]." The American and Ukrainian leaders are both expected to attend the World Economic Forum in Switzerland next week, although Trump suggested no formal plans were arranged for them to meet. In recent weeks, Russian attacks on Kyiv have left thousands of homes without regular power, heating or running water. After one particularly heavy night of missile and drone attacks last week, 70% of the capital was left without power for several hours. Following a special cabinet meeting on Wednesday, Zelensky said a round-the-clock task force would be set up to fix damage caused by Russian strikes and worsening weather conditions. He said the new measures would include procuring vital energy equipment and resources from abroad to replace damaged installations. "The First Deputy Prime Minister – Minister of Energy of Ukraine has been assigned to oversee work supporting people and communities under these conditions," he wrote on X. He also ordered an increase in the number of emergency help points around Kyiv to provide heat and power for residents, a move which could see a relaxing of current midnight curfew in the capital. Russian attacks on energy infrastructure have not been limited to the capital. Last week, Ukrainian officials said that more than one million people in south-eastern Ukraine spent hours without heating and water supplies as a result of Russian air strikes. DTEK, Ukraine's biggest private energy provider, is living in permanent crisis mode because of Russian attacks on the grid, its CEO, Maxim Timchenko, told the BBC last month. As the fourth anniversary of Russia's full-scale invasion approaches, Timchenko said Russia had repeatedly targeted DTEK's energy grid with "waves of drones, cruise and ballistic missiles" and the company had found it difficult to cope. He added that the intensity of strikes had been so frequent "we just don't have time to recover". DTEK currently provides power for 5.6 million Ukrainians. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At a suburban Kyiv railway station, two carriages painted in the blue and white livery of Ukrainian Railways sit on the main platform, their diesel engines running as snow steadily falls. The train is not going anywhere but it is providing a vital service for dozens of people who have been left without power and basics like running water or heating. These are Ukraine's "Invincibility Trains", designed to boost public morale and provide some comfort as a bitter winter coincides with intensifying Russian attacks. In one of the carriages, Alina sits watching her infant son Taras playing with toys provided by international charities who help run the service. "It's winter and it's rather cold outside," says Alina which is something of an understatement. With the effect of the wind-chill, temperatures this week in Kyiv have hit -19C. It is bitterly cold. "I live in a new building on the 17th floor, but we have no elevator, no electricity and no water supply," says Alina. As Taras plays with his toys, she says it is also a relatively safe and comfortable place for her daughter to meet friends. It is also a welcome distraction for Alina, whose husband works all day in a factory, but she suddenly starts to stutter and weep as she tells me about her 54-year-old father who was killed at the front two years ago in a summer offensive near Bakhmut. As she regathers her composure, Alina says she will definitely come back here and welcomes the relief the train brings from the weather and the nightly Russian strikes. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has accused Russia of deliberately exploiting the bitter winter to target power stations, energy storage facilities and other critical infrastructure. Kyiv's Mayor, Vitali Klitschko, somewhat controversially this week also suggested that city residents, who could, should leave Kyiv to help ease pressure on critical resources. It was a comment seized upon by Russia as a sign of resignation and defeatism. But despite such obvious hardships, most people here in Kyiv remain stoic and are prepared to put up with them. For Yulia Mykhailiuk, Ihor Honcharuk and their one-year-old son Markiian, that means heating building bricks on a gas stove to try to warm up the rest of their small apartment. The flat, in an old Soviet-era apartment block on the east side of the Dnipro river, is a temporary move because their own home was partially damaged in a Russian attack last August. "We've had electricity today for something like four minutes," Ihor tells me. "All of our charging stations and power banks have no energy left in them." "For the first time in a while we have a real winter in Ukraine," says Yulia somewhat ironically. "With this -12 to -16 cold and no heating, the apartment gets cold pretty soon." The large batteries the couple have bought, like many city residents, to charge up when electricity does return are of no use when it comes to heating appliances because they run down so quickly. For now, dressing the baby up in multiple layers of clothing is the only solution, but Yulia says at the weekend they will heed Mayor Klitschko's call and temporarily move away from Kyiv to her parents' home outside the city, although she says it's a decision they have made for themselves and not because of pressure from the mayor's office. The energy crisis is not the only reason to move. Just across the courtyard from their new, temporary home, a recent Russian drone strike hit an apartment block, badly damaging several homes. Kyiv's problems are exacerbated by the fact it has borne so many Russian airstrikes against homes and critical infrastructure installations and, as home to more than three million people, the power shortages impact many people. The most recent Russian attacks against energy installations in the capital and other big cities have had a cumulative effect that is much worse than before. Klitschko said strikes on Monday night had caused the worst electrical outage the city had yet seen, and on Tuesday more than 500 residential buildings were still without power. "Compared to all previous winters, the situation now is the worst," Olena Pavlenko, president of the Kyiv-based think tank DiXi Group, told the Kyiv Independent website. "Every time it's harder to recover. Everything is under ice, and repairs of cables and grids are now two to four times more complicated," she said. Around the clock and across the city, engineers from private energy companies and the municipal authority are repairing power plants hit directly in Russian strikes or installations indirectly affected by them. On another bitterly cold morning we found hardy engineers using mechanical diggers and working with their bare hands to locate and repair damaged power cables which serve the huge multi-occupancy tower blocks on the river's east bank. The city authorities have repeatedly asked people and business not to use high-energy consumption devices because they use so much power, and when the electricity supply returns, the surge in demand for power causes the system to collapse – hence the damaged power cables we saw being repaired. But the engineer in charge here acknowledged it was a temporary fix. "It will take years and years. We are currently working literally in emergency modes," says Andrii Sobko from DTEK Grids repair crew. "The equipment is literally operating at its critical parameters so that at least the residents have light." As the war drags on, it's hard to find anyone in Ukraine who has not been directly impacted by the conflict. Stanislav or "Stas" has also come down to the Invincibility Train to get warm, meet friends and get some power for his phone. The eleven-year-old says his home is very cold and there'd recently been no power in the family's apartment for 36 hours. He recalls with clarity the opening day of the war almost four years ago when he could see bright flashes in the sky - a "bright orb" - as Russia launched its attacks. These days it is the threat of Russian drones that keeps him awake at night. "When I hear something flying it's really scary, because you don't know if it will explode now, or if it will fly on and you survive."  As we perch on the top bunk of the carriage where he is sitting with another friend, Stas is frank about the impact of the war on his generation. "I forget the times when there was no war, I don't remember those moments – life is difficult," says Stas, his smile wide and demeanour remarkably bubbly. There are all kinds of people seeking warmth, comfort or company on the train. But my next conversation with an elderly lady, who says her discomfort is nothing compared with what soldiers on the front are enduring, is abruptly cut short as the familiar high-pitched sound of an air raid alert rings out on our phones. The conductor orders everyone off the train and directs them to a shelter, about a kilometre away. Most head home instead, to the cold and their interrupted power supplies but all - including Stas and Alina - say they'll be back tomorrow. Everyone in Kyiv is putting a brave face on things. This extraordinarily cold winter, even by Ukrainian standards, will not last for much more than a couple of months and the energy crisis will ease. What most people fear is that, despite some optimism at the end of last year, there is no end in sight to the war itself and the inevitable loss of life. Additional reporting by Firle Davies and Mariana Matviechuk. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
2025 was the deadliest year for civilians in Ukraine since 2022, according to the United Nations (UN). Conflict-related violence killed at least 2,514 civilians last year, the UN's Human Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine said, compared with 2,088 in 2024 and 1,974 in 2023. The number of injured civilians also increased sharply each year. The year's deadliest attack killed at least 38 civilians in the western city of Ternopil in November, it reported, including eight children. On Tuesday President Volodymyr Zelensky said overnight Russian strikes had killed four people in Kharkiv and left "several hundred thousand households" without power in and around Kyiv amid freezing temperatures. The total number of civilians killed and injured in 2025 represented a 31% increase on 2024, and 70% on 2023, according to the UN mission. In 2022, 8,423 people were killed and 12,670 injured after Russia launched its full-scale invasion in February. In November last year, it reported more than 14,534 civilians had been killed since the war began. The mission's chief Danielle Bell said last year's figures represented "a marked deterioration in the protection of civilians". "Our monitoring shows that this rise was driven not only by intensified hostilities along the frontline, but also by the expanded use of long-range weapons, which exposed civilians across the country to heightened risk." Separately, Zelensky said almost 300 drones, 18 ballistic missiles and seven cruise missiles had targeted cities across the country overnight, causing a major power outage in the Kyiv region. The city's mayor Vitali Klitschko said air defences were in operation during what the military said had been a missile attack. The CEO of energy company Yasno said the whole city had gone into "emergency shutdowns" as a result, while emergency workers sought to put out fires and reconnect supplies in sub-zero temperatures. The country's foreign minister accused Russia of deliberately targeting energy infrastructure to "deprive people of power, water and heating" and heating as they woke up to temperatures below -15C. Parts of the capital had already faced days without heating and electricity in freezing temperatures due to strikes last week. Zelensky said four people were killed in a missile strike "without any military purpose whatsoever" on a postal terminal in Korotych, Kharkiv. The north-eastern region's governor said 10 people had been injured, while Ukraine's foreign ministry said 30 people had been evacuated. Elsewhere, the governor of Donetsk Vadym Filashkin said two were killed in strikes across the eastern region, while officials in Odesa in southern Ukraine said six people were injured by strikes which damaged homes, energy facilities, a hospital and a kindergarten. Kyiv said it had also launched its own attack overnight on a drone manufacturing plant in Russia's western Rostov region. The army's general staff said explosions and a fire were recorded in the area. The latest attacks came two days after Russia's full-scale invasion hit its 1,418th day - the same length of the Soviet army's participation in World War Two. The EU's ambassador to Ukraine Katarina Matheronva wrote on social media: "Back then, the USSR was attacked, fought back, and - thanks to massive Western support - ended the war victorious... Today, Putin chose this war. Planned it. Launched it. Owns it." A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Flames lick around the edges of Omar's passport. "It's burning well," an unseen woman says in Russian in the video. Omar, a 26-year-old Syrian construction worker, had been deployed for about nine months on the front line of Russia's war in Ukraine when the clip arrived on his phone. He knew the woman's voice. It was Polina Alexandrovna Azarnykh, who he says had helped him sign up to fight for Russia, promising lucrative work and Russian citizenship. But now she was angry. In a series of voice notes from Ukraine, Omar, speaking under a pseudonym for his safety, describes how he ended up trapped and terrified in the war zone. He says Azarnykh had promised that if he paid her $3,000 (£2,227), she would ensure he stayed in a non-combat role. But, he says, he was sent into battle with just 10 days of training, so he refused to pay and she eventually responded by burning his passport. He says he tried refusing to take part in a mission, but his commanders threatened to kill or jail him. "We were tricked… this woman is a con artist and a liar," says Omar. A BBC Eye investigation has followed how Azarnykh, a 40-year-old former teacher, uses a Telegram channel to lure young men, often from poor countries, into joining Russia's military. The former teacher's smiling video messages and upbeat posts offer "one-year contracts" for "military service". The BBC World Service has identified nearly 500 cases where she has provided documents, referred to as invitations, which allow the recipient to enter Russia to join the military. These have been for men - mainly from Syria, Egypt and Yemen - who appear to have sent her their passport details in order to enlist. But recruits and their relatives have told the BBC that she misled men into believing they would avoid combat, failed to make clear they could not leave after a year and threatened those who challenged her. When contacted by the BBC, she rejected the allegations. Twelve families told us of young men they say were recruited by her who are now dead or missing. Domestically, Russia has expanded conscription, recruited prisoners and offered increasingly generous sign-up bonuses to maintain its operation in Ukraine, despite substantial losses. More than one million of its soldiers have been killed or wounded since the full-scale invasion in 2022, with 25,000 killed in the month of December 2025 alone, according to Nato. Research by BBC News Russian, based on obituaries and other publicly available death records, suggests Russian troop losses in Ukraine rose faster than ever last year. It is difficult to determine how many foreigners have joined Russia's military. BBC Russian's analysis - which also looked at the number of foreigners killed and injured - suggests at least 20,000 may have signed up, including from countries such as Cuba, Nepal and North Korea. Ukraine has suffered significant troop losses too, and has also taken foreign fighters into its ranks. Omar's first contact with Azarnykh was when he was stranded with barely any money at a Moscow airport in March 2024, together with 14 other Syrians. Jobs in Syria were scarce and low paid. Omar says a recruiter there had offered the men what they understood to be civilian work guarding oil facilities in Russia. They flew to Moscow, only to learn they had been scammed. Searching online for options, Omar says, one of the group found Azarnykh's channel and messaged her. She met them at the airport within hours, and took them by train to a recruitment centre in Bryansk, western Russia, he says. There, he says, she offered them one-year contracts with the Russian army, with a monthly salary equivalent to about $2,500 (£1,856), and a sign-up payment of $5,000 (£3,711) - sums they could only dream of in Syria. Omar says the contracts were in Russian, which none of the men understood, and she took their passports, promising to arrange Russian citizenship. She also promised they could avoid combat roles if they paid her $3,000 (£2,227) each from their sign-up payments, he says. But, he says, within about a month, he was on the front line with, he says, just 10 days' training and no military experience. "We're 100% going to die here," he says in one of his voice notes, sent to the BBC investigative team. "A lot of injuries, a lot of explosions, a lot of shelling. If you don't die from the explosion, you'll die from the debris landing on you," he says in May 2024. "Dead bodies everywhere… I've stepped on dead bodies, God forgive me," he reports the following month. "If someone dies, I've seen it with my own eyes, they put him in a rubbish bag and throw him next to a tree," he adds. After nearly a year, he had discovered what he says Azarnykh had failed to explain - a 2022 Russian decree essentially allows the military to extend soldiers' contracts automatically until the war ends. "If they renew the contract, I'm screwed - oh God," he says. Azarnykh's Telegram channel has 21,000 subscribers. Her posts have often told readers wanting to apply to join the Russian military to send her a scan of their passport. She has then posted invitation documents, sometimes with a list of names of the men they are for. The BBC has identified more than 490 such invitations that she has sent over the past year to men from countries including Yemen, Syria, Egypt, Morocco, Iraq, Ivory Coast and Nigeria. Her posts have mentioned recruitment for an "elite international battalion" and made it clear that people in Russia illegally - including those whose visas have expired - are eligible. Outside the UK, watch the film on YouTube, or listen to the podcast here. We have spoken to eight foreign fighters including Omar who were recruited by her, as well as the families of the 12 men who are missing or dead. Many felt Azarnykh had misled or exploited recruits. They told us the men knew they were joining the military, but did not expect to serve on the front line. Several, like Omar, felt they had inadequate training or thought they would be able to leave after a year. In Egypt, Yousef - whose name we have also changed - told the BBC his older brother Mohammed, began a university course in Yekaterinburg in Russia in 2022. But he struggled to pay his fees, Yousef says, and told his family a Russian woman named Polina had begun offering him help online, including work with the Russian military that he believed would allow him to continue his studies. "She promised him housing and citizenship… monthly expenses," he says. "Suddenly he was sent to Ukraine. He found himself fighting," says Yousef. His last call was on 24 January 2024, Yousef says. About a year later, Yousef says a message arrived on Telegram from a Russian number, containing images of Mohammed's body. The family eventually learned he had been killed almost a year earlier. Azarnykh became "one of the most important recruiters" for Russia's army, says Habib, another Syrian who has served in Russia's military. He was willing to be filmed but spoke under a pseudonym for fear of repercussions. Habib says he and Azarnykh "worked together for around three years on visa invitations to Russia". He gave no further details and we have not been able to confirm his role in the process. An image   from social media in 2024 shows him alongside her. Azarnykh, who is from Russia's south-western Voronezh region, ran a Facebook group helping Arab students come to Moscow to study, before starting her Telegram channel in 2024. Habib says most foreign recruits arrived expecting roles securing facilities or standing at checkpoints. "The Arabs who are coming are dying immediately. Some people lost their minds - it's hard to see dead bodies," he says. Habib says he met Omar and the group of Syrians at a military training site. "She had promised them citizenship, good salaries and that they'd be safe," Habib says. "But once you sign a contract here, there's no way you can leave." "None of them knew how to use a weapon. Even if they were shot at, they would choose not to shoot back… if you don't shoot, you will be killed," he says. "Polina would take the men, knowing that they were going to die." He says she "received $300 (£223) from the army for every person she recruited". The BBC could not confirm this, although other recruits also told us they believed she received payment. Azarnykh's posts from mid-2024 begin to note that recruits will be "participating in hostilities" and mention foreign fighters who have died in combat. "You all understood well that you were going to war," she says in one video in October 2024. "You thought that you could get a Russian passport, do nothing and live in a five-star hotel?... Nothing happens for free." In another case, in 2024, the BBC has heard a voice message sent by Azarnykh to a mother whose son was serving in the military.  Azarnykh says the woman has "published something horrible about the Russian army". Using expletives, she threatens the son's life and warns the woman: "I'll find you and all your children." The BBC made multiple attempts to contact Azarnykh. Initially she said she would do an interview with us if we travelled to Russia, but the BBC declined for safety reasons. Later, when asked in a voice call about claims that recruits were promised non-combat roles, she hung up. In voice notes sent afterwards, she said our work was "not professional" and warned of potential defamation proceedings. She also said: "Our respected Arabs can stick their accusations up their arses." The BBC contacted the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Defence for comment, but received no response. Previously, in March 2022 President Putin backed the recruitment of men from the Middle East, insisting they were ideologically, not financially, driven: "There are people who want to come voluntarily, especially not for money, and provide assistance to people." Journalists and researchers following the issue say individuals like Azarnykh are part of a web of informal recruiters. The BBC has found two other Telegram accounts in Arabic making similar offers for joining Russia's military. One includes posts showing invitation documents and lists of names, the other has advertised large sign-up payments for joining an "elite battalion". In September, Kenyan police said they had broken up a suspected "trafficking syndicate" that they said was luring Kenyans with job offers, but sending them to fight in Ukraine. Kateryna Stepanenko, a research fellow at the Institute for the Study of War, told the BBC some municipal and regional authorities in Russia have been offering cash incentives of up to $4,000 (£2,970) to individuals such as HR professionals and local residents who recruit Russians or foreigners into military service. She says the Kremlin initially used larger entities such as the Wagner private military group and prison system for recruitment, but since 2024 has also been "leveraging locals and smaller companies". This "suggests to me that those earlier versions of recruitment are no longer generating the same number of recruits", she adds. Meanwhile, Habib is now back in Syria after, he says, having bribed several commanders to terminate his contract. Omar eventually received Russian citizenship and has also managed to return to Syria. Two of the Syrians he served with are dead, according to their families. Azarnykh "sees us as numbers or money - she doesn't see us as people", he says. "We won't forgive her for what she did to us." Additional reporting by Olga Ivshina, Gehad Abbas, Ali Ibrahim, Victoria Arakelyan, and Rayan Maarouf A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A new festival celebrating Ukrainian culture and the country's nationals who have settled in Surrey will launch later this month. Epsom and Ewell Borough Council and the Epsom and Ewell Refugee Network say they have been helping refugees who fled to the area since war broke out in Ukraine in 2022. The council said its Festival of Friendship is "a chance for our Ukrainian friends to share their traditions and culture with the local community". The festival runs from 27 January to 1 February and features exhibitions, workshops, films and live performances at a number of venues in the area. The workshops and exhibitions will be at Epsom Library and will include Ukrainian block painting, paper art, wool crafts and beading. Activities for children, such as treasure hunts, face painting and an appearance by Paddington Bear, will also be held at the library. The Epsom Picturehouse cinema will show a number of films accompanied by live Ukrainian music performances. Councillor Clive Woodbridge, chairman of the community and wellbeing committee, said: "Events like this remind us that kindness and mutual understanding are at the heart of a thriving borough." The council is partnering with the Epsom and Ewell Refugee Network to run the festival. Jo Sherring, from the network, said: "Since the start of the war in Ukraine in 2022, we have been working with Ukrainian nationals who fled to the UK, helping them access work, housing, schools and community. "Their courage, resilience and determination have been an example to us. As we have helped them to navigate life in the UK, we have enjoyed building friendships and learning about their culture and traditions. "The Festival of Friendship is a chance for our Ukrainian friends to share their traditions and culture with the local community with activities happening during the week." Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook, on X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Sitting in a wine bar in Kyiv on a Saturday night, Daria, 34, opens a dating app, scrolls, then puts her phone away. After spending more than a decade in committed relationships she's been single for a long time. "I haven't had a proper date since before the war," she says. Four years of war have forced Ukrainians to rethink nearly every aspect of daily life. Increasingly that includes decisions about relationships and parenthood – and these choices are, in turn, shaping the future of a country in which both marriage and birth rates are falling. Millions of Ukrainian women who left at the start of the 2022 full-scale invasion have now built lives and relationships abroad. Hundreds of thousands of men are absent too, either deployed in the army or living outside the country. For those women who stayed, the prospect of meeting somebody to start a family feels increasingly remote. Khrystyna, 28, says it's noticeable that there are fewer men around. She lives in the western city of Lviv and has been trying to meet a partner through dating apps without much luck. "Many, I would say most [men] are afraid to go out now, in this situation," she says, raising her eyebrows. She is referring to the men of fighting age who spend most of their time indoors to avoid the conscription squads roaming the streets of Ukraine's cities. As for soldiers, "many are traumatised now because most of them – if they have returned – were in places where they experienced a lot", she says. Daria feels much the same. "I only see three options here," she says, listing the types of men she believes are available to women like her. First are those trying to avoid conscription. Someone who can't leave the house is probably "not a person you want to build a relationship with", Daria says. Then there are soldiers, forced into long-distance relationships with sporadic visits from the front line. With them, Daria warns, "you build a connection, then he leaves". The remaining option, she adds, are men under the conscription age of 25. But those aged 22 and under can still leave the country freely, and Daria says they could take off at any moment. Closer to the front line, many men on active duty are also shelving the idea of starting a relationship. Uncertainty, they say, makes long-term commitments feel irresponsible. Ruslan, a soldier serving in the Kharkiv region, knows the promises he can make are limited. Beyond visits once or twice a year, flower deliveries and the odd phone call, he asks, "what can I actually offer a girl right now?" "Promising a wife or a fiancée any long-term plans is difficult," says Denys, a 31-year-old drone operator, in a voice message sent from his position in the east of the country. "Every day there is a risk of being killed or injured, and then all plans will, so to speak, go nowhere." The consequences of this disruption threaten to ripple far into Ukraine's future. In many ways, they already have. Since the start of the invasion, the number of marriages has decreased sharply from 223,000 in 2022 to 150,000 in 2024. Ukraine has also seen deaths increase, enormous emigration – more than six million people have left the country since 2022, according to an UN estimate – and a stark decline in birth rates. These all lead to a dramatic drop in population, which in turn shrinks the workforce and slows economic growth. Oleksandr Hladun, a demographer at Ukraine's National Academy of Sciences, describes these trends as the "social catastrophe of war". And this follows Ukraine's population declining between 1992 and 2022, from 52 million to 41 million, due to a high mortality rate, migration and a decline in birth rates. Birth rates have dropped even lower during the conflict. In 2022, numbers were partly sustained by pregnancies from 2021, Hladun told Ukrainian media earlier this year. In 2023, some couples had children in the hope the war would end. But in 2024, when it became clear peace was not imminent, the birth rate fell sharply. It now stands at 0.9 children per woman, a record low, and far below the 2.1 children needed to maintain the population (for comparison, the total fertility rate in the EU is 1.38). While a decline in births is to be expected during war, Hladun says, it is generally followed by a peacetime compensatory increase thanks to those who postponed having children. But this effect is limited, usually lasting up to five years – too short a time to have a significant effect on Ukraine's bleak long-term prospects. "The longer a war lasts, the smaller this compensatory effect becomes," Hladun adds, because couples who put off having children during the conflict no longer get the chance to do so. "And for us it has already been four years, which is quite a long period." According to the National Academy of Sciences, the effects of the war will last well beyond the end of hostilities – which, in any case, is not in sight. The result, it says, could be a population of 25.2 million people by 2051, less than half what it was in 1992. Even committed couples suffer from the uncertainty of war. Olena, 33, has come to a fertility clinic on the outskirts of Lviv for a check-up. She is a policewoman and military instructor who is currently freezing her eggs, as health issues have made it difficult for her and her husband to conceive. At some point, Olena says, they will try IVF – though only while "taking into account my work and the situation in the country". Olena remembers life before the war as beautiful and "full of hope". But her dreams of starting a family were put on hold by the start of the invasion in 2022. "During the first year of the war, it felt as if everything had stopped," she says. "Everything we were striving for – building a home, planning children – nothing mattered anymore." Those fears haven't disappeared, even in Lviv, which like other parts of western Ukraine has, comparatively, been spared the worst of Russia's attacks. But for Olena, the question of having children now carries a sense of duty. "I am doing this both for myself, and for my family, and for Ukraine," she says. Soldiers on the front line, she believes, also die for the sake of unborn Ukrainian children. On the other side of the desk, Olena's gynaecologist and clinic director Dr Liubov Mykhailyshyn listens. She is proud to help "strong, nice women" like Olena, she says. But her big concern is the way the war is affecting the fertility of young Ukrainians. She worries about years of chronic stress and sleepless nights  – as well as the additional physical and psychological trauma for those on the front line. All of these, she says, can cause fertility problems, which could have an impact on birth rates in the years to come. "We are waiting for it," Mykhailyshyn says of the demographic crisis ahead. Olena nods. Recently, the Ukrainian government developed strategies aimed at tackling the problem, including affordable childcare and housing. These policies, however, rely on local authorities rather than centralised funding – meaning projects often don't take off, according to Hladun. And as long as would-be mothers and children remain exposed to the dangers of war, state-level efforts might not find much success, he concedes. Ukraine now has 17 million fewer people than when it gained independence after the fall of the Soviet Union. Only a return of a substantial proportion of the 6.5 million Ukrainians who live abroad could boost figures quickly. Yet even when the fighting stops, it is unclear how many will come back. People will be more willing to return if Ukraine is able to regain most of the territory seized by Russia since 2014, Hladun suggests. But anything short of that could leave Ukrainians feeling vulnerable as it would be considered a temporary ceasefire rather than a complete end of hostilities. Despite insistence from Moscow that it does not wish to take over the whole of Ukraine, many Ukrainians are convinced that Russia poses an existential risk to their country – and one that will outlast Russian President Vladimir Putin. In this context, Ukraine's population decline should be seen as a security threat, says Hladun. "Russia is simply demographically much larger," he argues. "And in this sense, it has more resources for war." The longer the war continues, the more the uncertainty will dent the country's prospects for long-term recovery. "Planning a future feels fragile, almost naive," Daria says. "This uncertainty is painful, but it becomes a part of everyday life. "I've come to accept that I might stay alone not because I want to, but because war reshapes what feels possible," she adds. "Learning to live with that is, in itself, a form of survival." Additional reporting by Liubov Sholudko. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia has used the Oreshnik ballistic missile as part of a massive overnight strike on Ukraine. Four people were killed and 25 others injured in Kyiv on Thursday night, where loud booms could be heard for several hours, setting the sky alight with explosions. It is only the second time that Moscow has used the Oreshnik, which was first deployed to hit the central city of Dnipro in November 2024. Russia's defence ministry said the strike was a response to a Ukrainian drone attack targeting Vladimir Putin's residence in late December, which Kyiv denies carrying out. While the ministry did not specify what had been the Oreshnik's target, shortly before midnight (22:00 GMT) videos began circulating on social media showing numerous explosions on the outskirts of the western city of Lviv. President Volodymyr Zelensky and Ukrainian authorities confirmed that a ballistic missile had struck infrastructure in Lviv, about 60km (40 miles) from the Polish border. The Oreshnik is an intermediate-range, hypersonic ballistic missile, meaning it can potentially reach up to 5,500km (3,417 miles). It is thought to have a warhead that deliberately fragments during its final descent into several, independently targeted inert projectiles, causing distinctive repeated explosions moments apart. "Such a strike close to EU and Nato border is a grave threat to the security on the European continent and a test for the transatlantic community," Ukrainian foreign minister Andrii Sybiha said. The strike was launched "in response to [Putin's] own hallucinations," he added, referring to the alleged drone attack on the president's residence in December. The EU had immediately cast serious doubt on whether the drone strike ever happened, and last week Donald Trump said he did not think any such attack had taken place. On Friday EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas said Russia's Oreshnik strike was meant as a warning to Europe and the US. "Putin doesn't want peace, Russia's reply to diplomacy is more missiles and destruction. This deadly pattern of recurring major Russian strikes will repeat itself until we help Ukraine break it," she wrote on X. Zelensky said in addition to the Oreshnik, 13 ballistic missiles targeted energy facilities and civilian infrastructure overnight, along with 22 cruise missiles and 242 drones. One damaged a building at the Qatari embassy, he added. He accused the attacks of aiming "against the normal life of ordinary people" during a cold spell and added everything possible was being done to restore heating and electricity. As Lviv and other western regions were targeted on Thursday night, more than a dozen missiles and hundreds of drones were deployed during the attack on Kyiv. A paramedic was among those killed while arriving at a damaged apartment in Kyiv. The capital's mayor, Vitali Klitschko, and Zelensky said it had been a "double-tap" hit - in which the first strike is followed by a second, killing rescuers who have arrived to help the injured. Two apartment buildings along the east bank of the Dnipro River and a high-rise building in the city's central district were also targeted. The morning after, as the clean-up got underway, the businesses that hadn't been damaged were open. A coffee shop just a few floors down from a destroyed apartment was serving customers. Wreckage from a Russian drone, including its wings and engine, were still scattered over the pavement outside. At another site, the round, charred entry hole of a missile was visible on the 11th floor of an apartment block in a quiet residential area. The power supply was disrupted in several of the city's neighbourhoods in the middle of a particularly harsh winter and as Kyiv braces for -15C (5F) temperatures this weekend. On Friday Klitschko urged Kyiv residents to leave temporarily if they were able to, and find warmth. "Half of Kyiv's apartment buildings - nearly 6,000 - are currently without heat due to damage to the capital's critical infrastructure caused by a massive enemy attack," he wrote on social media. Kyiv's streets now relentless hum with the buzz of the diesel generators that businesses rely on for power, but many residential buildings are reliant on central heating and restoring it can be a longer task. The targeting of power plants has become a constant feature of this war, with Ukraine increasingly responding in kind to Russia's sustained attacks on energy infrastructure that regularly leave millions without access to electricity or heating. On Thursday night, as Moscow's attack on Ukraine was ongoing, half a million people in the Russian region of Belgorod were left without power following Ukrainian shelling of infrastructure, the local governor said. Authorities also said that a Ukrainian strike on a Russian power plant in the city of Oryol, further north, affected the water and heating systems. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
More than one million people in south-eastern Ukraine spent hours without heating and water supplies as a result of Russian air strikes, officials have said. The attacks damaged infrastructure across the south-eastern Dnipropetrovsk region - as well as in neighbouring Zaporizhzhia. Russia has recently intensified attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure, aimed at paralysing power supplies during a harsh winter. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky accused it of "mockery" and pleaded for Western support. He later said there were fears of "a new massive Russian strike" as Moscow was trying to take advantage of the weather, with heavy snow and frost expected across Ukraine. Hospitals, water facilities and other critical services in Dnipropetrovsk had to operate on backup systems, the energy ministry said, while residents were urged to limit electricity use to avoid further strain on the grid. DTEK, Ukraine's biggest private energy provider, is living in permanent crisis mode because of Russian attacks on the grid, its chief executive told the BBC last month, with most of Ukraine suffering from lengthy power cuts during winter. Maxim Timchenko, CEO of DTEK, which provides power for 5.6 million Ukrainians, said the intensity of strikes had been so frequent "we just don't have time to recover". As the fourth anniversary of Russia's full-scale invasion approaches, Timchenko said Russia had repeatedly targeted DTEK's energy grid with "waves of drones, cruise and ballistic missiles" and his company had found it difficult to cope. "There is no military sense in such strikes on the energy sector, on infrastructure," Zelensky said on Thursday. He urged Ukrainians to remain "resilient" against Russia's attempts "to break Ukraine" and added that peace talks aimed at ending the war should not be a reason to slow down Western supplies for Ukraine's air defences. Zelensky has been on a diplomatic tour this week - meeting allies in the "Coalition of the Willing" and US President Donald Trump's peace envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner. Following those talks in Paris on Tuesday, the UK and France signed a declaration of intent on deploying troops in Ukraine if a peace deal is reached - a move Moscow warned would make foreign forces a "legitimate target". But a day later, Zelensky said European allies had not given him sound guarantees that they would protect his country in the event of new Russian aggression. However, he also said he believed Russia's full-scale war against Ukraine could be brought to an end in the first half of 2026. Speaking at the opening of Cyprus's presidency of the EU for the next six months, he said negotiations with European partners and the US had entered a new stage and stressed that the EU should play a central role in any settlement. President Donald Trump has been leading efforts to bring the war to an end. His proposals - amended by Ukraine and its European allies - envisage Ukrainian territorial concessions to Russia in areas it does not already control in the country's east. Negotiations centre on those points - the last 10% of the deal, according to Zelensky. So far, Ukraine has refused to agree to cede territory to Russia. Once agreed, those proposals would need Russia's approval. Russian President Vladimir Putin has shown no sign of backing down for his demands to annex the entire territory of the industrial eastern region of Donbas. His troops have been making slow progress in the past few months. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says European allies have not given him sound guarantees that they will protect his country in the case of a new Russian aggression. "I am asking this very question to all our partners and I have not received a clear, unambiguous answer yet," he told reporters on Wednesday. His comments come a day after the UK and France signed a declaration of intent on deploying troops in Ukraine if a peace deal to end the war with Russia is agreed. But full security guarantees have not been agreed. The US, which has been leading efforts to end the invasion, reportedly did not sign such a pledge at talks in Paris on Tuesday. After the Paris talks, which included some 30 countries that form the so-called Coalition of the Willing, UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said the UK and France would "establish military hubs across Ukraine" to deter future invasion, while French President Emmanuel Macron later said thousands of troops may be deployed. Allies proposed that the US would take the lead in monitoring a truce. But the key issue of territorial concessions that Ukraine is being asked to grant to Russia as part of the peace proposals are still being discussed. Moscow has not yet commented on the announcement made in the French capital. Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, and Moscow currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory. Sir Keir described the joint statement as "a vital part of our commitment to stand with Ukraine for the long-term". He added: "It paves the way for the legal framework under which British, French and partner forces could operate on Ukrainian soil, securing Ukraine's skies and seas, and regenerating Ukraine's armed forces for the future." Zelensky hailed that agreement as a "huge step forward". A day later, however, he appeared less optimistic. "I see the will, the political will, and that the partners are ready, and the partners are ready to give us strong sanctions, strong security guarantees," he said when asked if European countries would defend Ukraine. "But as long as we don't have such security guarantees - legally binding, supported by parliaments, supported by the United States Congress - this question cannot be answered. And even if they do, you still have to rely primarily on your own strength." The Paris talks were also notable owing to the presence of US President Donald Trump's peace envoys, Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner. Witkoff said the allies "largely finished" their work on agreeing security protocols. Last week, Zelensky said a peace deal was "90% ready". Territorial concessions and security guarantees have been at the forefront of unresolved issues for negotiators. Putin has repeatedly warned that Ukrainian troops must withdraw from all of Ukraine's eastern Donbas or Russia will seize it, rejecting any compromise over how to end the war. Zelensky has so far ruled out ceding any territory, but has suggested that Ukraine could withdraw its troops to an agreed point - but only if Russia did the same. Moscow currently controls about 75% of the Donetsk region, and some 99% of the neighbouring Luhansk. The two regions form the industrial Donbas region. It has been intensifying attacks against Ukrainian cities - particularly targeting energy infrastructure. Russia has also made slow progress in capturing more Ukrainian territory. Ukraine has hit back at Russian targets with drones, albeit with more limited success. Sir Keir Starmer says it is "deeply concerning" the rapper is set to headline a festival after recent antisemitic comments. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Home to Camden Town, the British Museum and Hampstead, the council is up for election on 7 May. Lord Walker suggests the government should keep the 5p cut in place due to increased costs caused by war in the Middle East. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A second lorry loaded full of donated items from a closed down care home has  reached a hospital in Ukraine. Milton Keynes-based Help Ukraine BAMK UK Community Interest Company (CIC), got involved to help transport the furniture and bedding from a 100-bed home in Hyde, Greater Manchester. An earlier delivery of motorised hospital beds, mobility aids, bedding, towels and even a piano made it to the country in November. Nataliya Lawson, from the CIC, said there were so many items left behind that after "a generous donation" and volunteer support it was able to buy a large vehicle to get the goods to the country. She said the large lorry full of goods included furniture, bedding, towels and mobility aids, was collected from the former Hyde car home, run by Cygnet Health. She said volunteers Richard and Debbie Pritchard and Liz and Marek Rudzinski , drove the 157 miles (253km) from Milton Keynes to Hyde to meet the driver and help load up the vehicle. "I cannot ignore mentioning James Baird, a British farmer from Littlehampton who got involved into aid work and took it to the next level," she said. He arranged the logistics and with the donation was able to organise the purchase of the lorry that transported the goods, which would now stay in the country. Lawson said the items, which arrived on 2 January, would be used by a small hospital in Zolochiv, west Ukraine, in its newly opened palliative care department. "Even though the furniture delivered as part of this aid load is second hand, it has been hugely appreciated by the hospital staff and will definitely benefit patients," she added. Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. Laura Blundell gives up her annual leave to volunteer with the charity Mercy Ships in West Africa. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. A tribunal judgement says the company should stay closed while investigations are ongoing. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Gatton Park, near Reigate, is celebrating 30 years of work by a team of more than 120 volunteers. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
On Tuesday, the so-called Coalition of the Willing, largely made up of European leaders, met in Paris with envoys of US President Donald Trump, to try to make further progress on a sustainable peace deal for Ukraine. With Ukraine's president Volodymyr Zelensky insisting a plan to end the war with Russia is "90% of the way there", no-one in that room wanted to jeopardise keeping the Americans onboard. But there was an immense Greenland-shaped elephant in that grand and glittering Paris meeting. Greenland is the world's biggest island - it's six times the size of Germany. It lies in the Arctic but it is an autonomous territory of Denmark. And Donald Trump insists he wants it; needs it for US national security. Denmark's Prime Minister Mette Federiksen was at the Paris meeting. She's a key EU ally of many of the leaders attending; a key Nato ally of the United Kingdom. None of those countries want to risk antagonising Donald Trump but with the political temperature rising in Washington and in Copenhagen, six big European powers, including the UK, France and Germany, issued a joint statement on the sidelines of the Ukraine talks. They said that security in the Arctic should be achieved collectively, together with Nato allies including the United States, and that it was for Denmark and Greenland alone to decide on matters concerning Denmark and Greenland. But was that really enough to contain Trump's ambitions? The answer came within hours: No. The White House released its own statement that it is "discussing a range of options" to acquire Greenland - all of them unilateral, including buying the island. Chillingly for Europe's leaders, the White House communique, delivered by press secretary Karoline Leavitt, said that "utilising the US military is always an option at the Commander-in-Chief's disposal". Now, this is far from the first time that Trump has expressed his intention to take Greenland but, especially in his first term as president, many in Europe - behind closed doors - made fun of the idea. But after the Trump administration's controversial military intervention in Venezuela at the weekend, no-one is laughing anymore. Denmark's prime minister said Trump's intentions over Greenland should be taken seriously and leaders left the Ukraine meeting very worried indeed. Consider the irony at play here. Multiple European national and other leaders, including of Nato and the EU, are trying to engage the Trump administration in safeguarding the future sovereignty of a European country (Ukraine) against the aggressive territorial ambitions of an outside force (Russia), just after the US has swooped into sovereign Venezuela militarily, taking its president into custody, while also continuing to actively threaten the sovereignty of another European nation (Denmark). To make matters even more stark - Denmark and the US are both members of the transatlantic alliance Nato. They are, according to Copenhagen, extremely close allies. Or were. Denmark says that if the Trump administration takes Greenland unilaterally, that will be the end of the transatlantic defence alliance that Europe has relied on for its security since the end of World War Two. Some might note that Trump has never been a big Nato fan. To say the least. Copenhagen has tried to engage the Trump administration over Greenland. Under a bilateral agreement, the US has a military base already on Greenland - established at the beginning of the Cold War. It has reduced the number of personnel there from around 10,000 during peak Cold War operations to around 200 and the US has long been accused of taking its eye off Arctic Security, until now. For its part, Denmark recently pledged to invest $4 billion in Greenland defence including boats, drones and aircraft. But the Trump administration has shown no interest in speaking to the Danes. On Sunday President Trump insisted that Greenland was: "so strategic right now, Greenland is covered with Russian and Chinese ships all over the place. We need Greenland from the standpoint of national security and Denmark is not going to be able to do it." Denmark refutes that last statement. Speaking to me on condition of anonymity one EU official told me "This whole situation has just underlined - once again - Europe's fundamental weakness vis-a-vis Trump." While Denmark's Nordic neighbours immediately rushed verbally to its defence after Trump's weekend comments on Greenland, initially there was deafening silence from Europe's so-called Big Three - London, Paris and Berlin. Eventually, UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said on Monday that Denmark and Greenland alone could decide the island's future. Germany's Chancellor, Friedrich Merz has said similar in the past. Emmanuel Macron visited Greenland in December in a gesture of solidarity with Copenhagen. And today came the joint statement. But direct criticism of the US was notably absent from the communique. "Had there been a common statement from all 27 EU partners, plus Nato ally the UK, in support of Danish sovereignty, that would have sent a powerful message to Washington," Camille Grande of the European Council on Foreign Relations told me. He was Assistant Secretary General for Defence Investment at Nato from 2016 to 2022. But only six of Denmark's European allies issued that statement together. And this is the crux of the matter. Trump's forthright manner, some call them his bullying tactics, have made European leaders extremely nervous. They've generally chosen to try to manage the US president, often in an attempt to safeguard bilateral relations, rather than stand up individually or together, and risk confronting him and facing potential consequences. In the new world of Big Power Politics we now inhabit, where the US and China, along with others like Russia and India, dominate, Europe at best looks like it's standing on the sidelines, and risks being trampled underfoot. Every year I have covered EU politics, the bloc pledges to play a greater role on the global stage, but when it comes to Trump, it has looked decidedly weak. At the end of last year, the EU failed to fulfil a pledge to financially support Ukraine using Russian state assets frozen in the EU. They found the money by other means, but critics say the bloc very publicly missed sending a potentially strong message both to Moscow and to the Trump administration, that has repeatedly dismissed the bloc as feeble. And in the one area where the EU has long strutted internationally - as a huge trading power, it has chosen once again to defer to Trump. When he slapped 15% tariffs on EU goods last year, the bloc swallowed its pride and promised not to retaliate, insiders say, because it feared losing US support this continent relies on for its security and defence. And now there's Greenland and Denmark - where EU countries are deeply divided in their attitudes towards the Trump administration and therefore to what extent they might stick their neck out for Copenhagen. As a result, Julianne Smith, the US ambassador to Nato until Trump's re-election as president, told me this situation "risks breaking the EU" as well as being an existential dilemma for Nato. "Europe should take President Trump and his team seriously when they talk about "getting" Greenland," Julianne Smith told me. "That means doing more than urging restraint. The leading powers in Europe may want to begin contingency planning; consider how they can make best use [of international meetings, such as] the upcoming Munich Security Conference and Davos where US senior officials will be present; and also consider bold and innovative ideas like new defence pacts." Nato treaties do not make a distinction between an attack on an ally from outside countries or from another Nato ally but there is an understanding that the alliance's Article 5 - nicknamed its all for one and one for all clause - isn't applicable to one Nato country attacking another. Take, for example, strife between member states Turkey and Greece over Cyprus. The worst violence was in 1974 when Turkey invaded. Nato did not intervene but its most powerful member the US was able to help mediate. If we come back to geography, Denmark is one of Nato's smaller allies, though a very active one. The US is Nato's biggest, most powerful member. By far. The deep-seated nervousness in Europe right now is palpable. Big European powers may have issued their joint statement underlining Nato as a forum to discuss Arctic security and insisting that only Denmark and Greenland can decide the islands future, but how far would the UK , France, Germany and others actually go to guarantee that sovereignty? "Nobody's going to fight the United States militarily over the future of Greenland," said the confident sounding White House deputy chief of staff, Stephen Miller, in an interview with CNN on Monday. ECFR's Camille Grande told me tensions over Greenland point - once again, he says - "at the need for the Europeans to reduce security dependencies on the US and to speak with one voice." Trump got all Nato allies - bar Spain - last summer to commit to massively increase spending on their own defence. But Europe is still heavily reliant on the US in many areas including intelligence gathering, command and control and air capabilities. Washington is well aware of this. Nato insiders say, right now, even in meetings behind closed doors, European member states of the alliance can hardly bring themselves to contemplate what could happen if Washington were to move in on Greenland militarily. Top picture credit: NurPhotoGetty Images BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. You can now sign up for notifications that will alert you whenever an InDepth story is published - click here to find out how. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The UK and France have signed a declaration of intent on deploying troops in Ukraine if a peace deal is made with Russia, UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer has announced. After talks with Ukraine's allies in Paris, he said the UK and France would "establish military hubs across Ukraine" to deter future invasion, while French President Emmanuel Macron later said thousands of troops may be deployed. Allies also largely agreed robust security guarantees for Ukraine and proposed that the US would take the lead in monitoring a truce. But the key issue of territory is still being discussed. Russia has repeatedly warned that any foreign troops in Ukraine would be a "legitimate target". Moscow has not yet commented on the announcements made in the French capital. Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, and Moscow currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory. Heads of state and top officials from the "Coalition of the Willing" took part in Tuesday's talks in Paris. Speaking at a joint press conference after the meeting, Starmer said: "We signed a declaration of intent on the deployment of forces to Ukraine in the event of a peace deal. "This is a vital part of our commitment to stand with Ukraine for the long-term. "It paves the way for the legal framework under which British, French, and partner forces could operate on Ukrainian soil, securing Ukraine's skies and seas, and regenerating Ukraine's armed forces for the future." The UK prime minister added London would participate in any US-led verification of a potential ceasefire. Top US negotiator Steve Witkoff said "durable security guarantees and robust prosperity commitments are essential to a lasting peace" in Ukraine - referring to a key demand made by Kyiv. Witkoff said the allies "largely finished" their work on agreeing security protocols "so that people of Ukraine know that when this [war] ends, it ends forever". Jared Kushner, US President Donald Trump's special envoy and son-in-law, said that after a deal Ukrainians needed to know that "real backstops" were in place to ensure war would "not happen again". Meanwhile, President Macron said Ukraine's allies had made "considerable progress" at the talks. He said "robust" security guarantees for Kyiv had been agreed in the event of a potential ceasefire. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said a "huge step forward" had been made in Paris, but added that he would only consider efforts to be "enough" if they resulted in the end of the war. What Ukraine calls security "guarantees" and what American officials have described as security "protocols" may leave some wiggle room for Trump in the event of coming to Kyiv's defence after a future Russian attack - but there is no doubt Zelensky feels he and his European allies have secured an important concession from Washington. We heard few, if any, new details about where a future ceasefire line would be drawn and what territory, currently occupied by Russian forces, Ukraine would agree to surrender. That prospect is still something many Ukrainians would find hard to swallow, especially as Russia continues to strike against cities and critical infrastructure across Ukraine on a daily basis. But as the snows fall and bitter winds sweep in from the east, Zelensky knows the only alternative to a ceasefire and subsequent peace deal, is another costly, attritional winter of warfare with the inevitable loss of life that will hit Ukraine far harder than Russia. Ukraine's president clearly hopes that guarantees of American monitoring, a multinational force on Ukrainian soil and more weapons support for his armed forces, will convince a sometimes-sceptical population that he is right to sue for peace, bolstered by a growing international coalition. But, in concluding the Paris press conference, Zelensky acknowledged Tuesday's "milestone" did not necessarily guarantee peace. Real progress still needs Russian support, and Moscow has been notably silent in recent days about diplomatic efforts to end the war. Putin is known to oppose the prospect of a European-led international force in any disputed areas and will be reluctant to halt his troops', albeit slow, advance if Moscow's war objectives have not been realised. But pressure is undoubtedly growing on both sides to make compromises and end the war. Last week, Zelensky said a peace deal was "90% ready". Agreeing on the remaining 10% would "determine the fate of peace, the fate of Ukraine and Europe". Territory and security guarantees have been at the forefront of unresolved issues for negotiators. Putin has repeatedly warned that Ukrainian troops must withdraw from all of Ukraine's eastern Donbas or Russia will seize it, rejecting any compromise over how to end the war. Zelensky has so far ruled out ceding any territory, but has suggested that Ukraine could withdraw its troops to an agreed point - but only if Russia does the same. Moscow currently controls about 75% of the Donetsk region, and some 99% of the neighbouring Luhansk. The two regions form the industrial region of Donbas. The original US-led 28-point peace plan widely leaked to the media last year was seen by Kyiv and its European allies as being heavily skewed in Russia's favour. This triggered weeks of intensive high-level diplomacy - with Ukraine, the US and European leaders trying to amend the draft. Last month, Kyiv sent the US an updated 20-point plan - as well as separate documents outlining potential security guarantees and provisions for Ukraine's reconstruction, Zelensky said. Sir Keir Starmer says it is "deeply concerning" the rapper is set to headline a festival after recent antisemitic comments. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Home to Camden Town, the British Museum and Hampstead, the council is up for election on 7 May. Lord Walker suggests the government should keep the 5p cut in place due to increased costs caused by war in the Middle East. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Volodymyr Zelensky has reshuffled the leadership of Ukraine's Security Service (SBU), replacing influential Vasyl Malyuk and nominating Maj-Gen Yevhenii Khmara as acting head. The SBU is primarily concerned with internal security and counter-intelligence and, since the beginning of Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022, it has also played a prominent role in assassinations and sabotage attacks deep inside Russia. Malyuk, who had run the SBU since 2022, gained a reputation for overseeing successful operations against Russia and for purging the SBU from alleged Russian double agents. The reshuffles are the latest in a long series made by Zelensky since the start of the war. Malyuk's name is known across Ukraine. After all, last June he co-ordinated the daring "Spider Web" attack, which saw more than 100 Ukrainian drones strike air bases deep inside Russian territory. Khmara, his replacement, was also involved in the preparation of that operation. So it did not come as a surprise that Malyuk's dismissal earlier this week was widely criticised within Ukraine, including by several high-profile military commanders. The impression that the decision made by President Zelensky was short-sighted was cemented by reports that Malyuk had initially refused to step down voluntarily. Although he has been dismissed from the position of SBU chief, he has been asked  to continue leading special operations against Russia. Ukraine needed more "asymmetric operations against Russian forces", Zelensky said, adding that Malyuk was "best at this". Khmara's appointment has gone some way in quelling fears about the SBU's future effectiveness. But former SBU operative Ivan Stupak argues his reputation - though solid - is limited to a certain sphere and that it is unclear whether he will be able to translate his experience to running the wider SBU. Stupak also believes that Malyuk's dismissal is connected with the appointment of former spy chief Kyrylo Budanov as Zelensky's new chief of staff. "Malyuk and Budanov are at loggerheads," he told the BBC, implying that Budanov had heavily influenced Zelensky's decision and that Khmara would now be "in the hands" of Budanov. Other analysts disagree. Oleksandr Notevskyi, political analyst for Ukrainian media outlet Grunt, praised Khmara's appointment, pointing out his successes in heading Alpha, one of the top elite divisions of the SBU: "He's young, he's experienced, he is one of the authors of the Spider Web operation." In a statement, the SBU described Khmara as a decorated and "experienced special-purpose officer" who was involved in liberating the Kyiv region in 2022 and fighting the Russians in the occupied region of Donetsk. Khmara's appointment will need to be confirmed by the Ukrainian parliament, which may yet reject it. Other options are on the table, Notevskyi said. After nearly four years of war, Ukraine is struggling to push back Russian forces in the conventional way - on the battlefield and along the long front line in the east of the country. It has had more success targeting oil fields, weapons factories and - as in the case of the Spider Web attack - air bases and valuable aircraft. At this particular juncture of the war with Moscow, Notevskyi argued, "whoever leads the security service should be someone who is specialised in eliminating Russia's military capacities on the territory of Russia". Last week, Zelensky announced significant changes to his top team. Mykhailo Fedorov was nominated as new defence minister, while foreign intelligence chief Oleh Ivashchenko replaced Budanov. Many of Zelensky's reshuffles have been criticised by commentators as damaging to the country at a time of crisis. Using a football analogy, Stupak argued that Zelensky was like a manager going to the substitute bench for replacements. "But his bench is quite short, and he's running out of people to use again and again," he said. Additional reporting by Volodymyr Lozhko and Anastasiia Levchenko A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
French President Emmanuel Macron is hosting Ukraine's leader Volodymyr Zelensky and other key allies of the country as efforts intensify to agree security guarantees for Kyiv in the event of a ceasefire with Russia. Heads of state and top officials from more than 30 countries - part of the so-called Coalition of the Willing - are meeting in Paris, including US mediators in peace talks Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, President Donald Trump's son-in-law. Zelensky met Trump recently and said his plan to end the war with Russia was 90% agreed. However, the proposals have yet to be presented to Russia, whose response so far has been far from encouraging. The outstanding 10% of the agreement that's yet to be decided concerns territorial concessions Kyiv is being asked to agree to. Moscow currently controls about 75% of the Donetsk region, and some 99% of the neighbouring Luhansk. The two regions form the industrial region of Donbas. Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 and has been making slow progress on the ground recently and, therefore, is unwilling to compromise on its aim to seize full control of Donbas. Russia has also consistently opposed any idea of a temporary ceasefire and has intensified its attacks in Ukraine, particularly aimed at paralysing its power supplies in the middle of a harsh winter. Ukraine has also hit back with drones - the latest target being an oil depot in the Lipetsk region of western Russia. UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer and Nato Secretary General Mark Rutte are among the participants at the Paris meeting. Leaders are expected to seek agreement on details that include a multi-national force to reassure Ukraine after a peace deal, what security guarantees to offer Ukraine in the event of a renewed Russian attack - as well as helping Ukraine's armed forces and its economy. For months, the so-called "backstop" has been on the agenda - the desire among Ukraine's European allies to secure a pledge from the US that it will be involved in responding to Russia should it violate the terms of a peace deal. Following talks between Zelensky and Trump in Florida last month, the Ukrainian leader said Washington had offered security guarantees for 15 years - but a time frame for their implementation is not yet clear. The talks in Paris are being overshadowed by the aftermath of the US's military action in Venezuela, where elite troops went in to seize the country's President Nicolás Maduro and take him to face drugs and weapons charges in New York. Following the raid, Trump said the US would "run" Venezuela for an unspecified period of time. He also said the US was returning to last century's policy of US supremacy in its sphere of influence in the Western hemisphere. Looming larger over the Paris talks is Trump's subsequent insistence that the US wants to annex Greenland - the semi-autonomous territory that is part of Denmark, a Nato ally. The repeated threat prompted Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen to say any such move from the US would be the end of the trans-Atlantic alliance. European leaders have been reluctant to criticise Trump's intervention in Venezuela and its perceived implications for the world order. But many, including Starmer and Macron, have sided with Denmark over Greenland. As host of the talks, Macron will be keen not to have the issue derail the focus on Ukraine. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A wild cat rescue group wants to save a young Eurasian lynx from war-torn Ukraine by caring for it in the UK. The Big Cat Sanctuary (BCS) is already caring for five lions it rescued from Ukraine at its new half-a-million-pound facility in Smarden, Kent, and is now trying to help Ursa the lynx. Ursa was kept in "appalling conditions" as a private pet, the sanctuary said, and despite now being held at a rescue centre on the outskirts of Kyiv, is still in danger due to the war. The BCS said it was determined to bring Ursa to Kent so she could enjoy the "peaceful forever home she deserves", and was trying to raise a minimum of £100,000 to fund it. Ursa was born in 2023 and her life has been marked by neglect and illegality, the sanctuary said. She was handed over to the Wild Animal Rescue Centre in Kyiv after being discovered at a private home by police. Vets found she had a severe intestinal infection, parasites and was significantly smaller than other lynx of her age due to poor nutrition and incorrect feeding. This means she would never survive in the wild, the sanctuary said. Cam Whitnall, managing director of the Big Cat Sanctuary, said: "Our mission to rescue the five lions from Ukraine showed the world what is possible when people come together. "Now, we are asking for that same incredible support for Ursa. She has had a difficult start to life, stunted by poor care and living under the constant shadow of war. "Ursa deserves a future where she is safe, and we are determined to bring her to the sanctuary, giving her the peaceful, forever home she deserves." Follow BBC Kent on Facebook, on X, and on Instagram. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Canada's former deputy prime minister Chrystia Freeland has said she will leave parliament to accept a job as adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Freeland said her role as an economic development adviser for Ukraine would be unpaid. In July, she will also take on a position to lead the Rhodes Trust, an educational charity, in the UK. She was elected in 2013, and served in key roles such finance, foreign affairs and international trade minister under former Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. She broke from Trudeau in late 2024, accusing him in a public resignation letter of failing to take the threat of US tariffs seriously, which helped force his political exit. Freeland posted on X on Monday: "Ukraine is at the forefront of today's global fight for democracy, and I welcome this chance to contribute on an unpaid basis as an economic adviser to [Zelensky]. "In the coming weeks I will also leave my seat in Parliament. I want to thank my constituents for their years of confidence in me. I am so grateful to have been your representative." As well as stepping down as an MP for Toronto's riding of University-Rosedale, a Liberal safe seat, she said she would quit her other role as Canada's special representative for the reconstruction of Ukraine. Earlier on Monday, Zelensky announced on X that Freeland would be taking on the role as adviser. The Ukrainian president said she had "extensive experience in attracting investment and implementing economic transformations". Zelensky's announcement had spurred calls from opposition politicians for her to step down. Conservative foreign affairs critic Michael Chong said "one cannot be a Canadian MP and an adviser to a foreign government". "She must do one or the other," he added. In November it was announced that this summer Freeland would become CEO of the Rhodes Trust, which administers Rhodes scholarships to Oxford University. In September, she stepped down as Carney's minister of transport and internal trade to take on the new role as Canada's special envoy to Ukraine, and announced she would not be running in the next federal election. A former journalist who is of Ukrainian heritage, Freeland has long been a vocal supporter of Kyiv in its war with Russia. In 2014, she was placed on a Kremlin list of Westerners banned from entering Russia in retaliation for sanctions against Moscow. In 2020, Freeland became the first woman to be appointed as finance minister in Canada's history, where she managed Canada's financial response to the Covid pandemic. She is also credited with helping renegotiate the current free trade agreement between Canada, the US and Mexico during President Donald Trump's first term in 2018. Trump later called her "toxic". The USMCA trade deal - or CUSMA in Canada - has been credited with helping the country largely avoid a stiff 35% tariff rate imposed by Trump, who granted Canada an exemption for goods covered by the free trade agreement. That deal is now up for another round of renegotiations this year. Canada recently banned 2,500 models of "assault-style" firearms - but a plan to buy-back tens of thousands of guns fell short by half. Jon Shipman says it was "ridiculous" that passengers were left in Newfoundland for two days. How a play broadcast live on Canadian television in 1956 became the famous comedy film Airplane!. Inspired by a picture of Neil Armstrong, the Ontario-born astronaut has dreamed of space since he was a child. The final six nations have qualified for the 2026 World Cup - this is your essential lowdown on the expanded edition of the tournament. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two people including a three-year-old child have been killed and around 28 others injured in a Russian strike on Kharkiv, Ukrainian officials have said. A multi-storey residential apartment block was almost completely destroyed in the dual missile attack on Friday afternoon, which Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky called "heinous". Russia's Defence Ministry denied reports of an attack, suggesting the blast had been caused by Ukrainian ammunition detonating. The strike comes ahead of crunch talks on a US-brokered peace plan in Kyiv on Saturday. Zelensky says around 15 countries are expected to attend the talks, along with representatives from the EU and Nato, with a US delegation joining the meeting via video link. Leaders of the so-called coalition of the willing are then set to meet in France on 6 January. Officials in Kharkiv said the bodies of a woman and a three-year-old child were found in the rubble, with preliminary information suggesting the pair may have been a mother and son. "Unfortunately, this is how the Russians treat life and people – they continue killing, despite all efforts by the world, and especially by the United States, in the diplomatic process," Zelensky wrote on X. Of the 28 injured, which included a six-month-old baby, 16 have been taken to hospital. A search and rescue operation is ongoing, with more than 80 volunteers working at the scene, according to regional governor Oleh Syniehubov. The Russian Defence Ministry said in a statement on Telegram that its armed forces "neither planned nor launched attacks using missile weapons or aircraft weapons within the city of Kharkiv". It added that footage from before the attack showed "heavy smoke of unknown origin", which it cited as evidence of ammunition detonated by Ukrainian armed forces. The ministry also alleged that the reports were seeking to distract attention from a New Year's Eve strike on a hotel in a Russian-held part of the southern Kherson region of Ukraine. Russia has accused Ukraine of killing at least 27 people and injuring more than 30 others in the drone strike on a New Year's party in the village of Khorly on the Black Sea. The BBC has not been able to independently verify either these claims or the number of casualties. Ukraine told the BBC it would not directly respond to sources of information such as claims from governors of occupied regions. It added that it adhered to the norms of international humanitarian law and conducted strikes exclusively against military targets. Russia's Investigative Committee said it had opened an investigation into the attack, while the Russian foreign ministry accused Zelensky of "seeking to intimidate the populations of the reunited Russian regions, who have forever linked their fates with Russia through referendums". A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has named spy chief Kyrylo Budanov as his new chief of staff, just over a month after his previous top aide resigned in a corruption row. "At this time, Ukraine needs greater focus on security issues," Zelensky said in a social media post, alongside a photo of his meeting with Gen Budanov in Kyiv. The 39-year-old has until now led the Hur military intelligence, which has claimed a number of highly effective strikes against Russia. Zelensky also said he intended to replace his defence minister Denys Shmyhal, appointing his current minister of digital transformation Mykhaylo Fedorov to take up the post. Budanov's predecessor, Andriy Yermak, wielded enormous political influence throughout Russia's full-scale invasion, which began in 2022. He also led Ukraine's negotiating team in crucial talks with the US aimed at ending the war. Zelensky wrote on Friday: "At this time, Ukraine needs greater focus on security issues, the development of the defence and security forces of Ukraine, as well as on the diplomatic track of negotiations. "Kyrylo has specialist experience in these areas and sufficient strength to deliver results." The president added that he had already instructed his new office chief to update and present key documents regarding "the strategic foundations" of Ukraine's defence. The chief of presidential staff in Ukraine is historically a very powerful position. There was a time in the 2000s when a presidential administration head in Ukraine wielded about as much power as the president himself. Ostensibly administrative, the role traditionally offered not just close access to the head of state, but also plentiful opportunities to pull the strings of government. For example, the chief of presidential staff could lobby for government appointments and apply pressure to business circles, often resulting in personal gain. Budanov's appointment suggests an intention to overhaul the role. It puts the president's office on a war footing - it will very likely be much more focused on security and the war with Russia. Later on Friday, Zelensky announced other changes to his top team. He said Fedorov had been nominated to serve as his new defence minister because he had "decided to change the structure of the Ukrainian ministry of defence". Federov, aged 34, is the youngest minister in the Ukrainian government. His key achievement so far is the development and implementation of Diya, a centralised digital platform for government services. He is "deeply involved with drones", and will be tasked in particular with training more drone operators, Zelensky said in his evening address. He added that Shmyhal remains "part of the team" and will be moved to another area of work. Zelensky said Budanov was being replaced by 56-year-old foreign intelligence chief Oleh Ivashchenko. Budanov's predecessor, former chief of staff Yermak, 54, stepped down on 28 November, and his departure was seen as a major blow to Zelensky. Yermak quit shortly after his home in Kyiv was raided by the country's anti-corruption agencies. He is not accused of any wrongdoing, and the anti-corruption bureau Nabu and specialised anti-corruption prosecutor's office Sap did not explain why they searched his property. In the past few months investigators have linked several high-profile figures to an alleged $100m (£75m) embezzlement scandal in the energy sector. They said they had uncovered an extensive scheme to take kickbacks and influence state-owned companies including state nuclear energy firm Enerhoatom. The corruption scandal has rocked Ukraine, weakening Zelensky's own position and jeopardising the country's negotiating position at a delicate time. Kyiv, backed by its European allies, is seeking to change the terms of a US-led draft peace plan originally seen as heavily slanted towards Russia. Russian officials have seized on the scandal, talking up corruption claims. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia has accused Ukraine of killing at least 27 people in a drone strike on a New Year's party in a hotel and cafe in the Russian-occupied southern Kherson region. According to the Russia-installed regional governor, Vladimir Saldo, more than 30 people were injured in the alleged attack, which he said happened in the village of Khorly on the Black Sea. Asked by the BBC for comment, Ukraine said it would not directly respond to sources of information such as claims from governors of occupied regions. But it did say it adheres to the norms of international humanitarian law and conducts strikes exclusively against military targets. AFP news agency quoted a source in Ukraine's defence forces as confirming that, while a strike did take place, the attack had targeted a military gathering that was closed to civilians. According to Saldo, the alleged attack was carried out with three UAVs [Unmanned Aerial Vehicles] which "struck a cafe and hotel on the Black Sea coast in Khorly". The BBC has not been able to independently verify either these claims or the number of casualties. Saldo said that he had personally informed President Vladimir Putin of the attack. The UN Human Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine said it was aware of the alleged attack and added it would "verify the reported civilian harm and report on its findings in future reports". Photographs published by Russian state media showed a badly damaged room with a collapsed roof. One picture appeared to show a body covered in a sheet. The Russian-installed authorities in Kherson did not specify where the attack took place, but the damaged building seen in the photos appears to be a three-storey hotel and restaurant formerly known as "Ukrainian House", and now called "Buganova's Cafe". Images from the cafe's website show several features similar to those seen in the pictures published on Russian state media. Russia's Investigative Committee said it had opened an investigation into the attack, while the Russian foreign affairs ministry accused Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky of "seeking to intimidate the populations of the reunited Russian regions, who have forever linked their fates with Russia through referendums". Moscow occupies more than half of the southern Kherson region, which it "annexed" through a referendum in 2022. The poll was denounced as a sham by Ukraine's government and its allies. The alleged attack comes as diplomatic efforts to end the war continue, with Zelensky saying in his New Year address that an agreement with Russia, brokered by the US, was "90% ready". Earlier this week, Russia accused Ukraine of launching a drone attack on one of Putin's residences, which Ukraine strenuously denied. On Friday, Ukraine's foreign intelligence service released a statement accusing Russia of preparing large-scale "provocations" with human casualties, as part of a continuing operation to derail peace talks. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said a peace agreement to end the war with Russia is "90% ready", in a New Year address that largely focused on resistance to Moscow's full-scale invasion. Zelensky said the remaining 10% of the agreement to end nearly four years of conflict would "determine the fate of peace, the fate of Ukraine and Europe". In his own New Year speech, Russian President Vladimir Putin told his troops that "we believe in you and our victory". Earlier on Wednesday, Moscow also released what it said was evidence of Ukraine using drones to target Putin's private home on Lake Valdai in north-west Russia, allegations Kyiv has strenuously denied. It included a map allegedly showing that the drones were launched from the Sumy and Chernihiv regions of Ukraine and a video of a downed drone lying in snowy woodland. A serviceman standing next to the wreckage claims it is a Ukrainian Chaklun drone. The BBC hasn't been able to verify the footage, and it is not possible to locate where it was shot. Russia would review its position on the ongoing peace negotiations as a result of the alleged incident, the Kremlin said. However, Kaja Kallas, the EU's top diplomat, on Wednesday described the Russian claims as a "deliberate distraction" and an attempt to derail the peace process. In his 20-minute address to the nation, Zelensky said that Ukraine did not want peace "at any cost", adding that "we want the end of the war – not the end of Ukraine". He said that a Ukrainian withdrawal from the eastern Donbas region means "everything will be over", a reference to Russia's maximalist demand that Moscow secure full control of the industrial area in any peace agreement. Moscow currently controls about 75% of the Donetsk region, and some 99% of the neighbouring Luhansk. The two regions are known collectively as Donbas. Its fate has been a major obstacle throughout negotiations, with Russia consistently unwilling to compromise on its aim to seize full control of Donbas. In the address, Zelensky thanked leaders that have supported Ukraine, but said that "intentions must become security guarantees, and therefore - be ratified". Following talks between Zelensky and his US counterpart Donald Trump in Florida earlier this week, the Ukrainian leader said Washington had offered security guarantees for 15 years - but a time frame for their implementation is not yet clear. "Signatures under weak agreements only fuel war," Zelensky said in his address. "Either the world stops Russia's war, or Russia drags the world into its war." By comparison, Putin's New Year address was much shorter. Addressing the war in Ukraine, which Moscow describes as a "special military operation", Putin said: "We strive to bring joy and warmth through our care for those in need of support and, of course, to stand by our heroes – the participants in the special military operation – in both word and deed." Separately, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un used his New Year message to praise the "invincible alliance" between Pyongyang and Moscow, while praising soldiers who are fighting in "alien lands". North Korea has sent thousands of troops to aid Russia in its invasion, along with missiles and long-range weapons, South Korean officials have said. At least 600 of those soldiers have died, according to South Korean estimates. Zelensky has expressed a desire for peace negotiations to resume and accelerate this month with the involvement of both US and European officials. French President Emmanuel Macron said European states and allies who are due to meet in Paris on 6 January "will make concrete commitments to protect Ukraine and ensure a just and lasting peace on our European continent". On Wednesday, Trump's advisers held talks with Zelensky and national security advisers from the UK, France and Germany about ending the war in Ukraine. US special envoy Steve Witkoff said they discussed "strengthening security guarantees and developing effective deconfliction mechanisms to help end the war and ensure it does not restart". But any deal will ultimately need Russian buy-in, which does not seem forthcoming - and which the alleged drone incident over Putin's residence may have pushed further into the distance. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The EU's top diplomat has called Moscow's claims that Ukraine targeted Russian government sites a "deliberate distraction" and an attempt to derail the peace process. Kaja Kallas' comments on social media appear to be a reference to the Kremlin's allegation that Ukraine attempted a drone strike on one of Vladimir Putin's residences. "No one should accept unfounded claims from the aggressor who has indiscriminately targeted Ukraine's infrastructure and civilians," Kallas wrote on social media. Earlier this week Moscow accused Ukraine of targeting Putin's private home on Lake Valdai in north-west Russia. Russia would review its position in the ongoing peace negotiations as a result, the Kremlin said. Since Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov first shared the claims, Russian state media and politicians have discussed the alleged attack in increasingly incendiary tones. "The attack is a strike on the heart of Russia," said Andrei Kartapolov, head of the Russian parliament's defence committee. "After what [Ukraine] has done, there can be no forgiveness." Although the Kremlin initially said it saw no point in sharing proof of the alleged attack, on Wednesday the Russian army released what it said was evidence of the attempted strike. It included a map allegedly showing that the drones were launched from the Sumy and Chernihiv regions of Ukraine and a video of a downed drone lying in snowy woodland. A serviceman standing next to the wreckage claims it is a Ukrainian Chaklun drone. The BBC hasn't been able to verify the footage, and it is not possible to locate where it was shot. The profile of the wrecked UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle) does bear similarities to Ukrainian-produced Chakluns – but because the components of the drone pictured are inexpensive and widely available online, they cannot be conclusively traced to the Ukrainian military. Russia's defence ministry also released a video of what it said was a local resident who described hearing a rocket-like noise at the time of the alleged attack. However, one Russian investigative media outlet said it had spoken to more than a dozen residents of the area around Putin's residence and none had heard anything that could indicate 91 drones had approached or been shot down by air defences. "If something like that had happened, the whole city would have been talking about it," one person told the outlet. A spokesperson for Ukraine's foreign ministry said what Russia presented as evidence was "laughable". "They are not serious even about fabricating the story," Heorhii Tykhyi told Reuters. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has also strenuously denied the allegations, tying them to the ongoing US-led process to reach a ceasefire in Ukraine. Putin has not publicly mentioned the alleged drone strike, but addressing Russia's troops in Ukraine during his New Year's Eve speech, he said "we believe in you and our victory". On Wednesday, US President Donald Trump's advisers held talks with Zelensky and national security advisers from the UK, France and Germany about ending the war in Ukraine. US special envoy Steve Witkoff said they discussed "strengthening security guarantees and developing effective deconfliction mechanisms to help end the war and ensure it does not restart". In Zelensky's New Year's Eve address, he said "the peace agreement is 90% ready, 10% remains". "Those are the 10% that will determine the fate of peace, the fate of Ukraine and Europe," he said. Meanwhile, French President Emmanuel Macron said European states and allies who are due to meet in Paris on 6 January "will make concrete commitments to protect Ukraine and ensure a just and lasting peace on our European continent". In recent weeks the American and Ukrainian delegations have been working closely, and Zelensky has expressed cautious optimism that his country's demands were going to be taken into account. In his view, he said on Tuesday, the claims about the drone attack on Putin's Valdai residence were about "the fact that over the past month there were quite successful talks and a positive meeting between our teams, culminating in our meeting with President Trump." Russia wanted to disrupt the "positive momentum" between the US and Ukraine, Zelensky said. When the claims emerged Zelensky also warned that the alleged drone strike would be used as an excuse to carry out strikes on Kyiv and Ukrainian government buildings. Overnight on Wednesday air alerts briefly rang out in the capital as a drone approached, but no hits or damage were reported. Instead, several locations across the country were hit by drones and Odesa on the Black Sea suffered a large-scale attack which saw an apartment block hit and six people injured, including three children. More than 170,000 were also left without power as temperatures struggled to push past 0C. Odesa has been coming under sustained attack for several weeks. The intensity of the strikes appears to have increased since Putin's threat in early December to cut off Ukraine's access to the sea in retaliation for drone attacks on tankers of Russia's "shadow fleet" in the Black Sea. With hours to go until the end of another year of war, many in Kyiv only had one wish for 2026. "We hope that all of this will end. We want this to be over and to live as we did before," 26-year-old Mariya said. Standing outside the golden-domed St Sophia monastery in Kyiv, she added: "We have a very beautiful country with enormous potential. Our strength is in our people, and that is why we keep going." As she spoke, teenage carollers nearby sang Christmas songs, collecting donations for the armed forces. "We all want victory to come in 2026. It's our united wish," said one. Zelensky has expressed the desire for peace negotiations to resume and accelerate early in January with the involvement of both American and European officials. But any deal will ultimately need Russian buy-in, which does not seem forthcoming – and which the alleged drone incident over Putin's residence may have pushed further into the distance. So could next year truly bring peace? "We truly hope so, but we can't say for certain. We are doing everything we can," Mariya said. Next to her, a woman named Ksenia shrugged and turned her eye to the sky: "Really, only God knows." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia, the US and Ukraine agree that a deal on ending almost four years of full-scale war is edging closer but, in the words of President Donald Trump, "one or two very thorny, very tough issues" remain. Two of the trickiest issues in Washington's 20-point plan involve territory and the fate of Europe's biggest nuclear plant, which is currently occupied by Russia. The Kremlin agrees with Trump that negotiations are "at a final stage", and Zelensky's next step is to meet European leaders in France on 6 January, but any one of the sticking points could jeopardise a deal. Vladimir Putin has not budged from his maximalist demand for the whole of Ukraine's industrial Donbas, although Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky has offered a compromise. Russian forces occupy most of the Luhansk region in the east but little more than 75% of Donetsk, and Putin wants it all, including the remaining "fortress belt" cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk. "We can't just withdraw, it's out of our law," says Zelensky. "It's not only the law. People live there, 300,000 people... We can't lose those people." He has proposed Ukrainian forces pull back from the area to create a demilitarised or free economic zone policed by Ukraine, if the Russians pull back the same distance too. The current line of contact would then be policed by international forces. It is difficult to imagine Putin agreeing to any of that, and Russia's generals have told him they are capturing Ukrainian territory fast. "If the authorities in Kyiv don't want to settle this business peacefully, we'll resolve all the problems before us by military means," Putin has claimed. Both sides are widely seen as suffering from exhaustion, and analysts from the Institute for the Study of War have estimated it would take Russian forces until August 2027 to conquer the rest of Donetsk if they are able to maintain their current rate of advance - which is not a given. Zelensky's compromise would also require Russian troops to leave other areas of Ukrainian territory where they maintain a limited presence, including Kharkiv and Sumy region in the north, Dnipropetrovsk in the east and Myokolaiv in the south. Without movement on Donetsk, the chance of a peace deal looks unrealistic, but a Russian compromise may not be out of the question. Kremlin envoy Yuri Ushakov said recently "it's entirely possible that there won't be any troops [in Donbas], either Russian or Ukrainian", although he was adamant the territory would be part of the Russian Federation. Ever since March 2022, Russia has occupied Europe's biggest nuclear plant at Enerhodar, on the banks of the Dnipro river. But the six nuclear reactors of the Zaporizhzhia plant are not producing electricity - they have all been in cold shutdown mode for more than three years -  and external power supplied by Ukraine is keeping the plant going to prevent a meltdown. To get it going again it needs substantial investment, partly to rebuild the destroyed Kakhovka hydro-electric dam that was used to provide cooling water for the plant. Ukraine believes the area should also become demilitarised and turned into a free economic zone. The US proposal, according to Zelensky, is for the US to manage the plant as a joint enterprise with Russia and Ukraine. Kyiv has said that is unrealistic and instead the US and Ukraine could jointly manage it 50-50, with the US deciding where half of the power goes - by implication to Russia. Ukraine's problem is that Russia will not let it go and the head of Russia's Rosatom nuclear agency Alexei Likachev has stressed that only one entity - Russia - can run it and ensure its safety. He has held out the possibility that Ukraine could use electricity generated by the plant in the context of international co-operation. Compromise on this issue may not be insurmountable, but it would require a level of trust between two neighbouring states when none exists. It is hard to imagine significant progress on the biggest sticking points when there is so little trust. When Trump suggested this week that Putin "wants to see Ukraine succeed… including supplying energy… at very low prices", Zelensky clearly did not believe a word of it - he does not consider Putin as serious about peace. "I don't trust Russians and... I don't trust Putin, and he doesn't want success for Ukraine," the Ukrainian leader said. Russia has also shown little faith in Kyiv - accusing Ukrainian forces of targeting drones at a Putin residence in the Novgorod region, although it gave no evidence of the attack. Ukraine denies it even happened and believes it is a Russian pretext for further Russian strikes on government buildings in Kyiv. Kyiv has asked the US and European leaders for security guarantees to ensure a Nato-style response in the event of a further Russian attack. Ukraine is also seeking to maintain an 800,000-strong military. Although the US and Europe might sign up to a deal on security, Russia will not accept European troops on the ground in Ukraine. Financial losses for Ukraine have been estimated at $800bn (£600bn), so another key issue is how much will Russia contribute to that. The US talks of a joint investment fund with Europe, and Russia has €210bn (£183bn) worth of assets in Europe that could also be used, even though Moscow has so far refused to allow it. Russia also rejects Ukraine's bid to join Nato. That may not be too much of a sticking point as there is no likelihood yet of that happening, but it is part of Ukraine's constitution, so finding agreement will be difficult. Membership of the European Union is also a potential sticking point, perhaps less so for Russia than for countries that are ahead of Ukraine in the queue to join the EU. Few believe it will happen very soon. The Ukrainian leader has cited opinion polls that suggest 87% of Ukrainians want peace, while at the same time 85% reject withdrawing from Donbas. So he believes no decision on either the fate of Donetsk or the broader 20-point plan can be made without a popular vote and a 60-day ceasefire to prepare it: "A referendum is the way to accept it or not accept it." This too is a potential sticking point as the Kremlin argues a temporary ceasefire would only prolong the conflict and lead to renewed hostilities - and Trump has said he understands Putin's position. But without such a vote Zelensky believes a deal would have no validity which just adds to the list of thorny issues to be resolved. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Volodymyr Zelensky has denied allegations by Russia that Ukraine launched a drone attack on one of President Vladimir Putin's residences, and accused Moscow of trying to derail peace talks. Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov claimed Kyiv had launched an attack over Sunday night using 91 long-range unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) on Putin's state residence in Russia's northwestern Novgorod region. Russia said it would now review its position in peace negotiations. It is not yet clear where Putin was at the time of the alleged attack. Zelensky dismissed the claim as "typical Russian lies", intended to give the Kremlin an excuse to continue attacks on Ukraine. He said that Russia had previously targeted government buildings in Kyiv, and warned that its latest claim could signal further strikes on Ukraine. "Everyone must be vigilant now. Absolutely everyone. A strike may be launched on the capital," Zelensky told journalists on Monday, adding that Russia's comments were a "threat". He said Russia was "looking for reasons" to continue its attacks on Ukraine and that it saw progress towards a ceasefire as a "failure". Zelensky added on X: "It is critical that the world doesn't stay silent now. We cannot allow Russia to undermine the work on achieving a lasting peace." In a statement shared on Telegram on Monday, Lavrov said all of the 91 drones he claimed were launched at Putin's residence were intercepted and destroyed by Russian air defence systems. He added that there were no reports of casualties or damage as a result of the attack. "Given the final degeneration of the criminal Kyiv regime, which has switched to a policy of state terrorism, Russia's negotiating position will be revised," he said. But he added that Russia did not intend to exit the negotiating process with the US, Russian news agency Tass reported. On Tuesday, the Kremlin said it would not provide evidence for the alleged strike, with a spokesman telling journalists that Russia would now "toughen" its negotiating stance. Ukraine's foreign minister called on other countries to refrain from responding to Russia's "false claims". "Almost a day passed, and Russia still hasn't provided any plausible evidence to its accusations of Ukraine's alleged 'attack on Putin's residence'. And they won't. Because there's none. No such attack happened," Andrii Sybiha said in a post on X. Moscow's claim comes after talks between the US and Ukraine in Florida on Sunday, where Presidents Trump and Zelensky discussed a revised peace plan to end the war. Following the meeting, Zelensky told Fox News on Monday that there was a "possibility to finish this war" in 2026. But he said Ukraine could not win the war without US support. "My feelings of President Trump's sanctions and economical steps, shows that he's ready for very strong steps," Zelensky said. "In this situation, the United States can move the situation to peace quicker." The Ukrainian president told Fox News there was no indication that Putin wanted peace and that he did not trust Putin. "I don't trust Putin and he doesn't want success for Ukraine," Zelensky added. Zelensky said the US had offered Ukraine security guarantees for 15 years, and Trump said an agreement on this point was "close to 95%" done. Ukraine's leader described territorial issues and the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant as the last unresolved matters, and there was little sign of progress on the future of Ukraine's contested Donbas region - which Russia wants to seize in full. Moscow currently controls about 75% of the Donetsk region, and some 99% of the neighbouring Luhansk. The two regions are known collectively as Donbas. Russia has previously rejected key parts of the plan under discussion. The White House said on Monday that President Trump had "concluded a positive call" with Putin, following the US-Ukraine talks. Yuri Ushakov, a Kremlin foreign policy aide, told reporters on Monday that during the call, Putin had pointed out the alleged attack on his residence happened "almost straight after what the US had considered to be a successful round of talks". Ushakov said: "The US president was shocked by this information, he was angry and said he couldn't believe such mad actions. It was stated that this will no doubt affect the US approach to working with Zelensky". During a later press conference, Trump initially appeared to say he did not know about the alleged incident, but later told reporters that he was told about it by Putin and was "very angry" about it. Asked if the US had seen any evidence supporting Russia's claim, he responded: "Well we'll find out. You're saying maybe the attack didn't take place - that's possible too, I guess. But President Putin told me this morning it did". A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Over the past 10 months, Russian losses in the war with Ukraine have been growing faster than any time since the start of the full-scale invasion in 2022, BBC analysis suggests. As peace efforts intensified in 2025 under pressure from US President Donald Trump's administration, 40% more obituaries of soldiers were published in Russian sources compared with the previous year. Overall, the BBC has confirmed the names of almost 160,000 people killed fighting on Russia's side in Ukraine. BBC News Russian has been counting Russian war losses together with independent outlet Mediazona and a group of volunteers since February 2022. We keep a list of named individuals whose deaths we were able to confirm using official reports, newspapers, social media, and new memorials and graves. The real death toll is believed to be much higher, and military experts we have consulted believe our analysis of cemeteries, war memorials and obituaries might represent 45-65% of the total. That would put the number of Russian deaths at between 243,000 and 352,000. The number of obituaries for any given period is a preliminary estimate of the confirmed losses, as some need additional verification and will eventually be discarded. But it can indicate how the intensity of fighting is changing over time. 2025 starts with a relatively low number of published obituaries in January, compared with the previous months. Then the number rises in February, when  Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin talked directly for the first time about ending the war in Ukraine. The next peak in August coincides with the two presidents meeting each other in Alaska, a diplomatic coup for Putin that was widely seen as an end to his international isolation. In October, when a planned second Russia-US summit was eventually shelved, and then in November, when the US presented a 28-point peace proposal, an average of 322 obituaries were published per day - twice the average in 2024. It is difficult to put increased Russian losses down to any one factor, but the Kremlin sees territorial gains as a way of influencing negotiations with the US in its favour: Putin aide Yuri Ushakov stressed recently that "recent successes" had had a positive impact. Murat Mukashev was among those who gambled on a quick peace deal, and it cost him his life. Mukashev was an activist who had never supported Putin's policies. Over the years, he had taken part in demonstrations against police violence and torture, and joined rallies for LGBT rights and the release of Alexei Navalny, the Kremlin's main opponent who died in prison in 2024. He had repeatedly condemned Russia's invasion of Ukraine on social media from 2022. Then, in early 2024, Mukashev was detained near his home in Moscow and charged with large-scale drug dealing. While his case was being tried he was offered a contract with the defence ministry, according to his friends and family. They saw the heavy charges levelled against him as a typical ploy to get people to sign up. A 2024 law allows the accused a way out of a criminal conviction if they join up - an attractive option in a country with an acquittal rate of less than 1%. Mukashev refused the offer, and the court sentenced him to 10 years in a high-security penal colony. In prison in November 2024, he changed his mind. Friends said he was encouraged by Trump's promises to end the war quickly and decided he needed to sign up as soon as possible to secure his release before a peace deal was reached. "He saw this as a chance to be released instead of being imprisoned for 10 years of strict regime," reads a statement from his support group. There was no explanation of how he reconciled taking part in the war with his reluctance to kill. On June 11 2025, Mukashev died fighting as part of an assault squad in the Kharkiv region of north-eastern Ukraine. Like him, the majority of Russians killed at the front in 2025 had nothing to do with the military at the start of the full-scale war, BBC figures show. But since the bloody battle for the city of Avdiivka in October 2023, there has been a steady increase in casualties among so-called "volunteers" - those who have voluntarily signed a contract since the start of the invasion. They now appear to form the majority of Russia's new recruits, as opposed to professional soldiers who joined the army before the invasion or those mobilised  for military service afterwards. A year ago 15% of Russian military deaths were volunteers, but in 2025 it was one in three. Local governments, under pressure to maintain a constant flow of new recruits, advertise hefty pay-outs, meet people who have large debts and campaign in universities and colleges. This means that the Kremlin has been able to compensate for heavy losses at the front while avoiding the politically risky move of a large-scale mandatory mobilisation. By October, 336,000 people had signed up for the military this year, according to National Security Council deputy chief Dmitry Medvedev - well over 30,000 a month. Nato Secretary-General Mark Rutte has since said that 25,000 Russian soldiers are being killed every month. If both are right, Russia is still recruiting more soldiers than it is losing. Based on obituaries and relatives' accounts, most of those who signed up to fight did so voluntarily; but there are reports of pressure and coercion, especially on regular conscripts and those charged with criminal offences. Some recruits mistakenly believe that after they have signed up for a year they can return to their old life with money in their pockets. A new recruit can earn up to 10m roubles (£95,000; $128,000) in a year. In reality all contracts signed with the defence ministry since September 2022 are automatically renewed until the war is over. According to Nato, the total number of Russian dead and wounded in the war is 1.1 million, and one official has estimated there have been 250,000 fatalities. This is in line with the BBC's calculations, although our list does not include those killed serving in the militia of two occupied regions in eastern Ukraine, which we estimate to be between 21,000 and 23,500 fighters. Ukraine has also sustained heavy losses. Last February, President Volodymyr Zelensky put the number of battlefield deaths at 46,000 and 380,000 others wounded. Tens of thousands more were either missing in action or held captive, he added. Based on other estimates and cross-referencing data, we believe the number of Ukrainians killed by now is as high as 140,000. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US has offered Ukraine security guarantees for 15 years, Volodymyr Zelensky has said, during talks on a revised peace plan with Donald Trump in Florida on Sunday. The US president said an agreement on this point was "close to 95%" done, but Ukraine's leader has since said he would like guarantees for up to 50 years. President Zelensky outlined territorial issues and the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant as the last unresolved matters, with little said on the future of Ukraine's contested Donbas region. Russia has previously rejected key parts of the plan, but a Kremlin spokesman agreed on Monday with Trump's assessment that peace is closer, Russian-owned news agency Tass reported. Addressing reporters at Trump's Mar-a-Lago resort after Sunday's meeting, Zelensky repeated his belief that an overall peace agreement was 90% of the way there, a figure he had given in the lead up to the visit. Both the US and Ukrainian leaders also indicated that there had been progress on one key sticking point - security guarantees for Ukraine. News agency Reuters reported that he hoped any security guarantees would begin the moment Kyiv signed a peace deal. "Without security guarantees, this war cannot be considered truly over. We cannot acknowledge that it has ended, because with such a neighbour there remains a risk of renewed aggression," Zelensky explained, according to news agency AFP. He added that he wanted the US to further "consider the possibility of 30, 40, 50 years". The US has not yet commented on the time frame. On Sunday, Trump said an agreement was close and that he expected European allies to "take over a big part" of that effort with support from the US. For President Zelensky, two core issues now remain unresolved within the plan - the question of territories and the future of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant which is in Russian-controlled territory in Ukraine. Moscow currently controls about 75% of the Donetsk region, and some 99% of the neighbouring Luhansk. The two regions are known collectively as Donbas. Speaking to reporters after their meeting, Trump said a deal on Donbas remained "unresolved, but it's getting a lot closer". Its fate has been a major obstacle throughout negotiations, with Russia consistently unwilling to compromise on its aim to seize full control of Donbas. On Monday, the Kremlin again said Ukraine should withdraw its troops from the part of the region that Kyiv still controls. Ukraine has insisted the area could become a free economic zone policed by its forces - but Zelensky has underlined that any talks on this should include the Ukrainian people, Reuters reported. The US president has repeatedly changed his own position on Ukraine's lost territories, and in September stunned observers by suggesting that Ukraine might be able to take it back. He later reversed course. Trump has also floated the possibility of trilateral talks between the US, Russia, and Ukraine, saying it could happen "at the right time". While he is keen to add the Ukraine-Russia war to the list of conflicts he claims to have ended, Trump cautioned that stalled or scrapped talks that go "really badly" could mean that the war continues for even longer. Zelensky suggested the Ukrainian officials could meet at the White House in January, potentially alongside European leaders, as the US and Ukrainian delegations finalise plans for further talks. In a post-meeting call with European allies, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen hailed "good progress" in the Florida talks while reinforcing the need for "ironclad security guarantees" for Ukraine. French President Emmanuel Macron also said Kyiv's allies would meet in Paris next month to discuss security guarantees. Zelensky has said that a peace plan should be put to a referendum in Ukraine, insisting that a 60-day ceasefire would be necessary for such a vote to take place. However, Russia does not back a temporary ceasefire - an issue which reportedly came up on a call between Trump and Russia's President Vladimir Putin ahead of Sunday's meeting. Yuri Ushakov, Russia's former US ambassador, said Trump listened to the Kremlin's assessment of the proposals and the two presidents left the call united in their belief that a temporary ceasefire proposed by the EU and Ukraine would instead prolong the conflict. Trump - who initiated the call - acknowledged that Moscow had little interest in a ceasefire that would allow Ukraine to hold a referendum. "I understand that position," he added. Little further detail was offered, although Trump said he believed the Russian leader "wants Ukraine to succeed". Meanwhile, strikes continued overnight in Ukraine. Kyiv said 25 airstrikes were carried out by Russia on Sunday, 21 of which were shot down. Russia's Ministry of Defence said 89 UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) from Ukraine were intercepted by its forces on Sunday night - the vast majority of which were over the Bryansk region. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Sensitive content: This article contains a graphic description of death that some readers may find upsetting I've reported on more than 40 wars around the world during my career, which goes back to the 1960s. I watched the Cold War reach its height, then simply evaporate. But I've never seen a year quite as worrying as 2025 has been - not just because several major conflicts are raging but because it is becoming clear that one of them has geopolitical implications of unparalleled importance. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned that the current conflict in his country could escalate into a world war. After nearly 60 years of observing conflict, I've got a nasty feeling he's right. Nato governments are on high alert for any signs that Russia is cutting the undersea cables that carry the electronic traffic that keeps Western society going. Their drones are accused of testing the defences of Nato countries. Their hackers develop ways of putting ministries, emergency services and huge corporations out of operation. Authorities in the west are certain Russia's secret services murder and attempt to murder dissidents who have taken refuge in the West. An inquiry into the attempted murder in Salisbury of the former Russian intelligence agent Sergei Skripal in 2018 (plus the actual fatal poisoning of a local woman, Dawn Sturgess) concluded that the attack had been agreed at the highest level in Russia. That means President Putin himself. The year 2025 has been marked by three very different wars. There is Ukraine of course, where the UN says 14,000 civilians have died. In Gaza, where Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu promised "mighty vengeance" after about 1,200 people were killed when Hamas attacked Israel on 7 October 2023 and 251 people were taken hostage. Since then, more than 70,000 Palestinians have been killed by Israeli military action, including more than 30,000 women and children according to Gaza's Hamas-run health ministry – figures the UN considers reliable. Meanwhile there has been a ferocious civil war between two military factions in Sudan. More than 150,000 people have been killed there over the past couple of years; around 12 million have been forced out of their homes. Maybe, if this had been the only war in 2025, the outside world would have done more to stop it; but it wasn't. "I'm good at solving wars," said US President Donald Trump, as his aircraft flew him to Israel after he had negotiated a ceasefire in the Gaza fighting. It's true that fewer people are dying in Gaza now. Despite the ceasefire, the Gaza war certainly doesn't feel as though it's been solved. Given the appalling suffering in the Middle East it may sound strange to say the war in Ukraine is on a completely different level to this. But it is. The Cold War aside, most of the conflicts I've covered over the years have been small-scale affairs: nasty and dangerous, certainly, but not serious enough to threaten the peace of the entire world. Some conflicts, such as Vietnam, the first Gulf War, and the war in Kosovo, did occasionally look as though they might tip over into something much worse, but they never did. The great powers were too nervous about the dangers that a localised, conventional war might turn into a nuclear one. "I'm not going to start the Third World War for you," the British Gen Sir Mike Jackson reportedly shouted over his radio in Kosovo in 1999, when his Nato superior ordered British and French forces to seize an airfield in Pristina after the Russian troops had got there first. In the coming year, 2026, though, Russia, noting President Trump's apparent lack of interest in Europe, seems ready and willing to push for much greater dominance. Earlier this month, Putin said Russia was not planning to go to war with Europe, but was ready "right now" if Europeans wanted to. At a later televised event he said: "There won't be any operations if you treat us with respect, if you respect our interests just as we've always tried to respect yours". But already Russia, a major world power, has invaded an independent European country, resulting in huge numbers of civilian and also military deaths. It is accused by Ukraine of kidnapping at least 20,000 children. The International Criminal Court (ICC) has issued an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin for his involvement in this, something Russia has always denied. Russia says it invaded in order to protect itself against Nato encroachment, but President Putin has indicated another motive:  the desire to restore Russia's regional sphere of influence. He is gratefully aware that this last year, 2025, has seen something most Western countries had regarded as unthinkable: the possibility that an American president might turn his back on the strategic system which has been in force ever since World War Two. Not only is Washington now uncertain it wants to protect Europe, it disapproves of the direction it believes Europe is heading in. The Trump administration's new national security strategy report claims Europe now faces the "stark prospect of civilisational erasure". The Kremlin welcomed the report, saying it is consistent with Russia's own vision. You bet it is. Inside Russia, Putin has silenced most internal opposition to himself and to the Ukraine war, according to the UN special rapporteur focusing on human rights in Russia. He's got his own problems, though: the possibility of inflation rising again after a recent cooling, oil revenues falling, and his government having had to raise VAT to help pay for the war. The economies of the European Union are 10 times bigger than Russia's; even more than that if you add the UK. The combined European population of 450 million, is over three times Russia's 145 million. Still, Western Europe has seemed nervous of losing its creature comforts, and was until recently reluctant to pay for its own defence as long as America can be persuaded to protect it. America, too, is different nowadays:  less influential, more inward-looking, and increasingly different from the America I've reported on for my entire career. Now, very much as in the 1920s and 30s, it wants to concentrate on its own national interests. Even if President Trump loses a lot of his political strength at next year's mid-term elections, he may have shifted the dial so far towards isolationism that even a more Nato-minded American president in 2028 might find it hard to come to Europe's aid. Don't think Vladimir Putin hasn't noticed that. The coming year, 2026, does look as though it'll be important. Zelensky may well feel obliged to agree to a peace deal, carving off a large part of Ukrainian territory. Will there be enough bankable guarantees to stop President Putin coming back for more in a few years' time? For Ukraine and its European supporters, already feeling that they are at war with Russia, that's an important question. Europe will have to take over a far greater share of keeping Ukraine going, but if the United States turns its back on Ukraine, as it sometimes threatens to do, that will be a colossal burden. But could the war turn into a nuclear confrontation? We know President Putin is a gambler; a more careful leader would have shied away from invading Ukraine in February 2022. His henchmen make bloodcurdling threats about wiping the UK and other European countries off the map with Russia's vaunted new weapons, but he's usually much more restrained himself. While the Americans are still active members of Nato, the risk that they could respond with a devastating nuclear attack of their own is still too great. For now. As for China, President Xi Jinping has made few outright threats against the self-governed island of Taiwan recently. But two years ago the then director of the CIA William Burns said Xi Jinping had ordered the People's Liberation Army to be ready to invade Taiwan by 2027. If China doesn't take some sort of decisive action to claim Taiwan, Xi Jinping could consider this to look pretty feeble. He won't want that. You might think that China is too strong and wealthy nowadays to worry about domestic public opinion. Not so. Ever since the uprising against Deng Xiaoping in 1989, which ended with the Tiananmen massacre, Chinese leaders have monitored the way the country reacts with obsessive care. I watched the events unfold in Tiananmen myself, reporting and even sometimes living in the Square. The story of 4 June 1989 wasn't as simple as we thought at the time: armed soldiers shooting down unarmed students. That certainly happened, but there was another battle going on in Beijing and many other Chinese cities. Thousands of ordinary working-class people came out onto the streets, determined to use the attack on the students as a chance to overthrow the control of the Chinese Communist Party altogether. When I drove through the streets two days later, I saw at least five police stations and three local security police headquarters burned out. In one suburb the angry crowd had set fire to a policeman and propped up his charred body against a wall. A uniform cap was put at a jaunty angle on his head, and a cigarette had been stuck between his blackened lips. It turns out the army wasn't just putting down a long-standing demonstration by students, it was stamping out a popular uprising by ordinary Chinese people. China's political leadership, still unable to bury the memories of what happened 36 years ago, is constantly on the look-out for signs of opposition - whether from organised groups like Falun Gong or the independent Christian church or the democracy movement in Hong Kong, or just people demonstrating against local corruption. All are stamped on with great force. I have spent a good deal of time reporting on China since 1989, watching its rise to economic and political dominance.  I even came to know a top politician who was Xi Jinping's rival and competitor. His name was Bo Xilai, and he was an anglophile who spoke surprisingly openly about China's politics. He once said to me, "You'll never understand how insecure a government feels when it knows it hasn't been elected." As for Bo Xilai, he was jailed for life in 2013 after being found guilty of bribery, embezzlement and abuse of power. Altogether, then, 2026 looks like being an important year. China's strength will grow, and its strategy for taking over Taiwan - Xi Jinping's great ambition - will become clearer. It may be that the war in Ukraine will be settled, but on terms that are favourable to President Putin. He may be free to come back for more Ukrainian territory when he's ready. And President Trump, even though his political wings could be clipped in November's mid-term elections, will distance the US from Europe even more. From the European point of view, the outlook could scarcely be more gloomy. If you thought World War Three would be a shooting-match with nuclear weapons, think again. It's much more likely to be a collection of diplomatic and military manoeuvres, which will see autocracy flourish.  It could even threaten to break up the Western alliance. And the process has already started. Top picture credits: AFP  Getty Images BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. You can now sign up for notifications that will alert you whenever an InDepth story is published - click here to find out how. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The much-anticipated talks lasted two-and-a-half hours, and that's an achievement in itself. Presidents Trump and Zelensky had never before spent this long in one room, negotiating. Afterwards, optimism was much on display at Mar-a-Lago. It was a "terrific meeting", according to Donald Trump. Volodymyr Zelensky agreed, describing it as a "great meeting" with "great discussions on all the topics". But even if the two presidents sounded more upbeat than before, yet again we did not hear any evidence of progress - just like after all the previous talks held this year. There is still no answer to the key question of whether Ukraine will have to give up territory in exchange for a promise of peace. This is one of the main demands put forward by Russia and apparently backed by the US, so the fact that Zelensky has not accepted it - at least not in public - counts as good news for Ukraine. He did appear to leave the possibility of territorial concessions open, however, by saying that a referendum may be held to approve any deals to end the war. There is also no clarity on another crucial issue: security guarantees. Even though President Zelensky says they were "100%" agreed with the US, we do not know what they are and whether they would be enough to deter Russia from attacking Ukraine again. No less importantly, regardless of what agreements presidents Trump and Zelensky may have reached, there is no reason to assume that Russia would accept them. In fact, it has already rejected key ideas floated immediately before the talks in Florida: that a ceasefire be declared and a multinational force be deployed to Ukraine to monitor it. And this begs the question of what Donald Trump is prepared to do should Russia reject his agreements with Volodymyr Zelensky. So far, it has been the Ukrainian leader who has borne the brunt of his pressure, irritation and anger. Donald Trump's continuing positive rhetoric about Vladimir Putin (who, the US president said today, is "serious" about peace and "wants to see Ukraine succeed") suggests that this is unlikely to change. At the end of the day, all this means that despite Donald Trump's and Volodymyr Zelensky's optimism, we've seen little indication that lasting peace will prevail in Ukraine any time soon. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
While Christmas is a time of joy and happiness for most families, many Ukrainian refugees in the UK have been facing a third year of festivities away from home. It was almost four years ago when Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine began and it quickly became clear that those who fled the country were not going to return any time soon. One of those people was Iryna Izotova, from Sloviansk near the Russian border, who was forced to flee the city in March 2022, leaving behind her mother and brother. She told BBC Midlands Today she remembered arriving in Coventry a few months later. "We arrived after midnight, it was late at night," she said. "We were so tired and we were so frustrated." The population of her home city has fallen by about 50% since the invasion began and Ms Izotova said it had affected most people she knew. "Everybody lost somebody," she added. "My friend's husband died from this war. "Another of my friends died because of the war. This situation touched every family." She confirmed her mother had also died in the last year, though her death was not caused by the war. Ms Izotova remained uncertain as to whether she would ever return to Ukraine even if the war ended, because she had little family left there. However, she talked of her plans for 2026, which included buying her own apartment. "Of course, the most important thing for us is waiting for the finish of the war," she added. Since settling in Coventry, Ms Izotova has been working for company OuttaReach as a graphic designer. Shannon Giles, who also works at the firm, said she was "shy and reserved" when she first arrived. "Watching her come out of her shell over the last three-and-a-half years has been amazing to see," she added. "She has been absolutely outstanding, an impeccable designer, and she is amazing at her job. I couldn't wish for a better employee." Ms Izotova has also been helped by Coventry City Council, which holds weekly support sessions in the library for Ukrainians living locally. With more refugees arriving in the city, the authority said it still needed help from people willing to become host families. Ros Johnson, the authority's Homes For Ukraine lead, said: "People who live here in the UK have the opportunity to open their homes. "[It could be] just a room, just a bedroom and shared facilities - to allow the guest to share the kitchen and the bathroom." She said host families were also paid a thank you payment of £350 as part of the government-funded scheme. Follow BBC Coventry & Warwickshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. PD Chip has sniffed out many items over the years including sim cards and trackers. More than 300 handwritten memories have been added to the exhibition so far, organisers say. Scott Duffin puts his Coventry memorabilia trove on public display, after five years of collecting. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Specially trained officers are deployed in Birmingham, Coventry and Wolverhampton. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky will meet his US counterpart Donald Trump in Florida on Sunday, for the latest round of talks aimed at ending nearly four years of war with Russia. The pair will discuss an updated version of a US-brokered peace plan, which Moscow has yet to support, as well as separate proposals for US security guarantees. Their meeting at the US president's Mar-a-Lago home follows intense Russian bombardment of Kyiv over the weekend, which Zelensky said was evidence that Moscow "doesn't want peace". On Friday night, a 10-hour missile and drone barrage targeting Ukraine's capital killed two people and left 32 others injured, local authorities said. There were further Russian strikes on Saturday night. At the meeting in Florida, Zelensky is expected to raise security guarantees for Ukraine and territorial concessions, both issues that Russia has previously been unwilling to compromise on. They will also discuss the new 20-point peace plan, a revised version of an earlier 28-point plan drafted by US special envoy Steve Witkoff that was widely seen as being too favourable to Russia. Control of Ukraine's eastern Donbas region has been a major sticking point so far, but Zelensky has now said a "free economic zone" could be an option. Moscow currently controls about 75% of the Donetsk region, and around 99% of the neighbouring Luhansk. The regions are collectively known as the Donbas. The Kremlin has not commented on Zelensky's offer to withdraw troops from the Donbas if Russia pulls back too. But on Saturday, Russian President Vladimir Putin said Ukraine was "in no hurry to resolve this conflict peacefully", according to state-owned news agency Tass. Putin added that if Kyiv did not want to resolve the conflict peacefully, Russia would accomplish its objectives militarily. The Ukrainian president has voiced optimism about the new peace plan draft, describing it as "a foundational document on ending the war". On Friday, he told reporters that it was 90% complete: "Our task is to make sure everything is 100% ready." But Trump warned in an interview with Politico that Zelensky "doesn't have anything until I approve it". Trump added that he was expecting to see the new draft on Sunday. "I think it's going to go good with him. I think it's going to go good with Putin," he said in the interview, adding that he expects to speak to Russia's president "soon". Following meetings with Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney, Zelensky said Moscow's latest attack on Kyiv was "Russia's answer [to] our peace efforts and this really shows that Putin doesn't want peace". Zelensky also took a call with European leaders to discuss diplomatic "priorities"  ahead of his meeting with Trump, adding that "strong positions are needed" to move forward with the plan. Kyiv has the "full support" of European and Nato leaders, German Chancellor Friedrich Merz said. Russia launched attacks on Ukraine over the weekend - the most destructive of which happened Friday night into Saturday morning. Ukrainian officials said Russia's attacks on Kyiv caused significant damage to energy infrastructure, with 40% of residential buildings in Kyiv and nearby districts left without heating. Russia's defence ministry said long-range precision weapons were used to target energy facilities, which it claimed were being used "in the interests of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and enterprises of the Ukrainian military-industrial complex". Russia directed almost 500 drones and 40 missiles towards Kyiv, targeting energy and civilian infrastructure, according to Ukrainian officials. Pictures showed gaping holes in apartment buildings and homes on fire following the strikes. The apartment block of BBC journalist Anastasiya Gribanova was struck, leaving some homes on the higher levels of the high-rise building in flames. Gribanova, who was in the building's lift at the time, was unharmed. The attack saw Poland, which shares a 530km-long (320 miles) border with western Ukraine, ready its fighter jets, ground-based air defence systems and radar reconnaissance. Later on Saturday morning, it concluded that there had been no violation of the country's airspace. Russia's defence ministry said its air defence systems had intercepted and destroyed almost 200 Ukrainian drones over several Russian regions, including eight over Moscow. A smaller number of missiles were fired at Ukraine on Saturday night into Sunday, Ukraine's General Staff of the Armed Forces said. It said the army had repelled 30 drones in the north, south and east of the country. No casualties were reported. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. The World Cup includes 48 nations, but there are still a number of top players who have missed out on qualification. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
During the war with Ukraine, the number of billionaires in Russia has reached an all-time high. But in the 25 years Vladimir Putin has been in power, Russia's rich and powerful - known as oligarchs - have lost almost all their political influence. All this is good news for the Russian president. Western sanctions have failed to turn the uber-rich into his opponents, and his carrot-and-stick policies have turned them into silent backers. Former banking billionaire Oleg Tinkov knows exactly how the sticks work. The day after he criticised the war as "crazy" in an Instagram post, his executives were contacted by the Kremlin. They were told his Tinkoff Bank, Russia's second-largest at the time, would be nationalised unless all ties to its founder were cut. "I couldn't discuss the price," Tinkov told the New York Times. "It was like a hostage - you take what you are offered. I couldn't negotiate." Within a week, a company linked to Vladimir Potanin - currently Russia's fifth-richest businessman, who supplies nickel for fighter jet engines - announced that it was buying the bank. It was sold for only 3% of its true value, says Tinkov. In the end, Tinkov lost almost $9bn (£6.5bn) of the fortune he once had, and left Russia. This is a far cry from the way things were before Putin became president. In the years following the break-up of the Soviet Union, some Russians became fabulously rich by taking ownership of massive enterprises formerly owned by the state, and by exploiting the opportunities of their country's nascent capitalism. Their newly acquired wealth brought them influence and power during a period of political turmoil and they became known as oligarchs. Russia's most powerful oligarch, Boris Berezovsky, claimed to have orchestrated Putin's ascent to presidency in 2000, and years later he appealed for forgiveness for doing so: "I didn't see the future greedy tyrant and usurper in him, the man who would trample freedom and stop Russia's development," he wrote in 2012. Berezovsky may have exaggerated his role, but Russia's oligarchs were certainly capable of pulling strings at the highest echelons of power. A little more than a year after his apology, Berezovsky was found dead in mysterious circumstances in exile in the UK. By that time, Russian oligarchy was well and truly dead, too. So when Putin gathered Russia's richest in the Kremlin hours after ordering the full-scale invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022, there was little they could do to object, even though they knew their fortunes were about to take a massive hit. "I hope that in these new conditions, we'll work together just as well and no less effectively," he told them. One reporter present at the meeting described the assembled billionaires as "pale and sleep-deprived". The run-up to the invasion was very bad for Russia's billionaires, and so was its immediate aftermath. According to Forbes magazine, in the year to April 2022, their number fell from 117 to 83 because of the war, sanctions and a weakened rouble. Collectively, they lost $263bn - or 27% of their wealth each on average. But the years that followed showed that immense benefits were to be reaped from being part of Putin's war economy. Lavish spending on the war spurred economic growth of more than 4% a year in Russia in 2023 and 2024. It was good for even those among Russia's ultra-rich who were not making billions directly out of defence contracts. In 2024, more than half of Russia's billionaires either played some role in supplying the military or benefited from the invasion, says Giacomo Tognini, from Forbes's Wealth team. "That's not even counting those who aren't directly involved, but do need a relationship of sorts with the Kremlin. And I think it's fair to say that anyone running a business in Russia needs to have a relationship with the government," he told the BBC. This year saw the highest ever number of billionaires in Russia - 140 - on the Forbes list. Their collective worth ($580bn) was just $3bn shy of the all-time high registered in the year before the invasion. While allowing loyalists to profit, Putin has consistently punished those who have refused to toe the line. Russians remember all too well what happened to oil tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky. Once Russia's richest man, he spent 10 years in jail after launching a pro-democracy organisation in 2001. Since the invasion, almost all of Russia's mega-rich have stayed quiet, and those few who have publicly opposed it have had to abandon their country and much of their wealth. Russia's wealthiest are clearly key to Putin's war effort, and many of them, including the 37 business people summoned to the Kremlin on 24 February 2022, have been targeted by Western sanctions. But if the West wanted to make them poorer and turn against the Kremlin, it has failed, given the continuing wealth and absence of dissent among Russian billionaires. If any of them had considered defecting to the West with their billions, the sanctions made that impossible. "The West did everything possible to ensure that Russian billionaires rallied around the flag," says Alexander Kolyandr of the Center for European Policy Analysis (CEPA). "There was absolutely no plan, no idea, no clear path for any of them to jump ship. Assets were sanctioned, accounts frozen, property seized. All that effectively helped Putin to mobilise the billionaires, their assets and their money, and use it to support the Russian war economy," he tells the BBC. The exodus of foreign companies in the wake of the invasion of Ukraine created a vacuum quickly filled by Kremlin-friendly business people who were allowed to buy up highly lucrative assets on the cheap. This created a new "army of influential and active loyalists", argues Alexandra Prokopenko of the Carnegie Russia Eurasia Center. "Their future wellbeing depends on continued confrontation between Russia and the West," while their worst fear is the return of the previous owner, she says. In 2024 alone, 11 new billionaires emerged in Russia in this way, according to Giacomo Tognini. Russia's leader has maintained a firm grip on the country's key movers and shakers, despite the war and Western sanctions - and in some respects because of them. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said he will meet his US counterpart  Donald Trump in Florida on Sunday, as talks continue on ending Russia's full-scale war. Zelensky said he wanted to focus on a US-brokered peace plan, and separate proposals for US security guarantees. But a senior Russian official said the plan was "radically different" to the one Russia was negotiating with the US. The Kremlin has not commented on Zelensky's offer to withdraw troops from Ukraine's eastern Donbas region, if Russia pulls back too. Overnight, at least five people were injured in the capital, Kyiv, in a fresh wave of Russian air strikes, the mayor said. Another person was wounded in the Kyiv region. Kyiv Mayor Vitaliy Klitschko said Ukraine's air defence forces were repelling the attack, with eyewitnesses reporting blasts in the city. The Russian attack continued on Saturday morning, with Ukraine's air force warning that a drone and missile threat is in force for the entire country. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Moscow currently controls about 75% of the Donetsk region, and some 99% of the neighbouring Luhansk. The regions are collectively known as Donbas. Ukraine has sought to secure guarantees from the US as part of a peace deal, and Zelensky has suggested that a demilitarised "free economic zone" is a potential option for areas of Donbas that Russia has failed to take by force. On Friday, Zelensky told reporters that the 20-point plan was 90% complete: "Our task is to make sure everything is 100% ready." He wrote on social media: "We are not losing a single day. We have agreed on a meeting at the highest level – with President Trump in the near future. A lot can be decided before the new year." But in an interview with Politico published on Friday, Trump said his Ukrainian counterpart "doesn't have anything until I approve it". "I think it's going to go good with him. I think it's going to go good with [Vladimir] Putin," Trump said. He also said he expects to speak with the Russian president "soon". Trump also told Politico that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu would visit him in the coming days. Putin's senior aides have held further talks with US officials over the phone, after Kremlin envoy Kirill Dmitriev returned from a meeting in Florida last weekend. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov was positive about the latest developments, but accused Ukraine of trying to "torpedo" talks on the US plan. "I think December 25, 2025, will remain in all our memories as a milestone when we truly came close to a solution. But whether we can make the final push and reach an agreement depends on our work and the political will of the other side," he said in comments to Russian state TV on Friday. Shortly after details of Zelensky's imminent visit to Florida emerged, the mayor of Kharkiv, Ukraine's second largest city in the north-east, said two people had been killed and several others wounded in a Russian air strike. Zelensky has met Trump several times this year, since an initial White House meeting in February descended into a hostile shouting match. Their most recent meeting at the White House in October was far more amicable. Confirmation of planned top-level talks came after the Ukrainian leader said he had spoken to Trump's chief negotiators, special envoy Steve Witkoff and son-in-law Jared Kushner, for an hour over the phone on Christmas Day. He said the latest round of negotiations had generated "new ideas" on how to end the war, and described it as a "really good conversation". The White House has proposed establishing what would in effect be a demilitarised zone in eastern Ukraine where both sides agree not to deploy troops - a compromise that would avoid settling the intractable question of legal ownership over the contested territory. Zelensky signalled on Wednesday that if Ukraine were to pull back by up to 40km (25 miles) from the front line in the east to create an economic zone, then Russia would have to do the same from Russian-occupied parts of Ukraine's industrial heartland in the Donbas. Ukraine has secured a number of changes to an earlier 28-point draft plan, which was formulated by Witkoff but widely seen as being favourable to Russia. Zelensky told reporters on Friday that the weekend talks in Florida would focus on several documents, including US security guarantees and a separate economic agreement. However, Zelensky has repeatedly said the question of territory has proved to be the most difficult issue to resolve, along with the future of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant. The White House has proposed Ukraine and Russia split the energy generated by the plant, the largest in Europe. Russian troops currently control it. Russia is unlikely to agree to a number of points in the updated US plan, especially its territorial proposals. Foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova accused "groups of states, primarily Western European" of seeking to derail the diplomatic progress that had been made. Putin has repeatedly warned that Ukrainian troops must withdraw from all of Donbas or Russia will seize it, rejecting any compromise over how to end the war. Zelensky outlined the latest version of the plan this week, the first time since the original 28-point draft was leaked in November. Latest proposals commit the US and Europe to providing security guarantees modelled on Nato's Article 5, committing allies to providing military support in the event Russia launches a renewed invasion. The deal would also see Ukraine's military maintained at 800,000 personnel, a level the Kremlin has demanded be cut. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At 82, Dave Robinson's lifelong commitment to music shows no sign of slowing down as he helps bring live music to war-torn Ukraine. As one of the co-founders of Stiff Records, he signed acts such as Elvis Costello, The Pogues, Madness, Motörhead, The Damned, and Kirsty MacColl. Now living in Bedfordshire, he has had a long career that has seen him trek across America with Jimi Hendrix and photograph The Beatles in Liverpool. Just weeks ago, he was in Ukraine, "12km from the front line", touring with Carlisle band Hardwicke Circus. Despite being struck down with pneumonia, he has no plans to slow down; the music must continue. For Mr Robinson, touring is fundamental to being a good musician. All the bands that were part of Stiff Records were encouraged to keep playing live -he notes that "all the ones that are above ground now are still touring", meaning they "obviously hooked onto the idea". He explained: "It's a very hard life because you will do up to four or five hours to get there, you'll set up, you'll do a sound check, then you'll do an hour set, and then you'll pack it all down and move to the next one". Robinson's journey began in the early 1960s when he moved from Ireland to the UK as a photographer. One lunchtime assignment in the 1960s took him to Liverpool's Cavern Club, where he photographed a string of bands, including The Beatles While he did not initially think they were "anything special," he recalled that Paul McCartney was friendly while John Lennon was not. He said: "I was just taking the pictures and trying to remember left to right. So, you try to get the names correct... I don't remember them very much. "I photographed about 11 bands, and four of them did Long Tall Sally... They're all copying that kind of era of music, including The Beatles." For him, The Beatles are a perfect example of how bands improve from touring. Years later, watching footage of The Beatles after the years they spent doing back-to-back shows in Hamburg, Robinson saw how touring had transformed them. He said: "I like touring. I think touring makes the band. Hamburg, that's what made the Beatles. "When I took their pictures, they hadn't been to Hamburg, insofar as I knew... They were a different band. "Touring every night, practising, getting the show together, tightening it up, making it really interesting for the public coming to see it... All of that I've specialised in with Stiff Records. In 1968, Mr Robinson managed Eire Apparent on a U.S. tour with Soft Machine and Jimi Hendrix. When lead tour manager Gerry Stickells fell ill, he stepped in for three months, a period he calls "character forming." He said: "You don't gain any experience from success. You gain experience from disasters". Logistics were a challenge, particularly the necessity of carrying money. Because "it was all cash, there were no credit cards", he was given "a briefcase and a Beretta" as "you had to have a gun if you were carrying money". He remembers that Hendrix's audience was overwhelmingly "very, very white" college students. He recalled they were young people who had "avoided the draft or evaded the draft" during the Vietnam War. He said: "Black people didn't get on planes, remarkably, at that time. They didn't fly a lot. "So, you'd get to an airport, and you'd have a lot of people giving you abuse... It was a very different time." There were other challenges in the airport too: "When we first went to America, all our gear went down the slides in the luggage thing, and it was all ripped to pieces. All the gear looked appalling coming down the chutes". Sometimes luggage was thrown off the plane before the flight took off, so Mr Robinson learnt to hold a wad of $20 bills in his hand so porters treated the gear more carefully in hopes of a tip. Now in his eighties, Mr Robinson is using decades of experience to support new bands in the toughest conditions. In November, he completed his second tour of Ukraine with Carlisle band Hardwicke Circus. The most recent tour started in the west at Lviv near the Polish border and continued to Kyiv, Ternopil and beyond Having taken bands into jails and toured Northern Ireland during the Troubles, Robinson believes Ukraine needs music more than anywhere else. He said: "People in the UK may or may not need the music, but Ukraine needs the music. So we'll go". The response in Ukraine had been overwhelmingly positive, with all the shows being packed. He observed that the crowds were largely composed of young people, primarily girls, with many local men fighting on the front line. Between gigs he saw wrecked cars, bombed buildings and heard sirens and explosions. The band visited schools and hospitals to run music workshops, often performing in underground venues for safety. He said: "It seemed to me we would leave a town and the town would be bombed the following day. "It wasn't that they were following us or anything, it's just coincidence, but that was the way it seemed." While on the road, Mr Robinson fell seriously ill with pneumonia, leaving him unconscious for three days. Despite this, he is keen to return as soon as possible and organise more tours of the region. He explained: "I have toured with everybody, I like touring, I like logistically planning it, I like working it all out. The music is what it's about; it's the music that is very important. "It's not masochistic. It's not there to be suffering. It's not there as punishment. It's there to bring the music to people who seem to need it more than the people at the festivals "I told the band: 'I can't guarantee the safety, we'll be doing everything we can obviously, but the reason we're going is because it's there, because they need the music'. "People in the UK may or may not need the music, but Ukraine needs the music. So we'll go." Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Officials say the hip-hop star was forced to sign papers releasing a rapper known as Pooh Shiesty from his record contract. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has given a positive assessment of a conversation he had with US envoys on how to end the Russia-Ukraine war. Zelensky said Thursday's call with Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner, which lasted nearly an hour, had yielded "new ideas in terms of formats, meetings, and... timing on how to bring a real peace closer". He added later that he would hold another meeting with President Donald Trump "in the near future". Earlier this week Zelensky gave details of an updated 20-point peace plan, agreed by US and Ukrainian envoys in Florida. The Kremlin said it was analysing proposals brought back from the US by a Russian envoy. Trump and his envoys have been holding talks with both Ukraine and Russia in an effort to reach a deal to end the war which was started by Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. There appears to have been some progress in recent days with Ukraine's president praising the "good ideas" put forward by Witkoff and Trump's son-in-law Kushner. Zelensky said it had been an "active day" for his country's diplomacy, as he went into details with the US envoys. He conceded that there was still "work to be done on sensitive issues" but added that "together with the American team, we understand how to put all of this in place". Zelensky added that Ukraine's top negotiator Rustem Umerov, the country's top security official, "will continue discussions with the American team". The 20-point peace plan agreed by the US and Ukraine is seen as an update to the  initial draft prepared by Witkoff several weeks ago. That draft was widely seen as heavily geared towards Russia's maximalist pre-invasion demands, which Kyiv and its European allies said would mean the de facto capitulation of Ukraine. Describing the updated proposal on Wednesday, Zelensky had said it offered Russia the potential withdrawal of Ukrainian troops from the east and the creation of a demilitarised zone in their place. He said the plan now included security guarantees from the US, Nato and Europeans for a co-ordinated military response if Russia invaded Ukraine again. On the key question of Ukraine's industrial eastern Donetsk region, Zelensky said a "free economic zone" was a potential option. Any area that Ukrainian troops pulled out of would have to be policed by Ukraine, he stressed. Moscow currently controls about 75% of the Donetsk region, and some 99% of the neighbouring Luhansk. They are collectively known as Donbas. Zelensky has been under heavy pressure from Trump to cede all of Donbas to Russia during ongoing Washington-led peace negotiations. The Ukrainian leader has so far rejected any territorial concessions, and instead demanded iron-clad security guarantees for Ukraine in any potential settlement. Russian President Vladimir Putin has repeatedly warned that Ukrainian troops must leave Donbas or Russia will seize it. On Thursday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Moscow was studying the proposals brought back from the US by the Russian envoy, Kirill Dmitriev. "We are examining this material, and depending on the decisions made by the head of state, we will continue our communication with the Americans," he said. While diplomatic efforts to end the conflict inch forward, fighting continues on the ground. The Ukrainian military said on Thursday that it had struck one of Russia's key oil refineries in the southern region of Rostov with cruise missiles. The Novoshakhtinsk refinery near the Ukrainian border is critical for supplying fuel for Russian military operations in occupied eastern Ukraine. The Russian defence ministry said its forces had taken control of the settlement of Sviato-Pokrovske in the Donetsk region. Earlier this week, Ukrainian troops withdrew from the embattled eastern town of Siversk. The capture of the town brings Russia closer to the last remaining "fortress belt" cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk still in Ukrainian hands in the Donetsk region. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Russian archaeologist detained in Poland is at the centre of an intense debate over the role of museums and experts and the role they play in Kremlin war propaganda. Alexander Butyagin is under arrest in Warsaw, awaiting a Polish court decision on a request to extradite him to Ukraine. Until now, courts across Europe have been reluctant to extradite Russians to Ukraine, citing the European Convention on Human Rights. Butyagin's case has divided opinion. A senior scholar at the Hermitage, Russia's largest art museum in St Petersburg, he has led the museum's expedition at the site of Myrmekion in Crimea since 1999, well before Russia's illegal landgrab of Ukraine's southern peninsula in 2014. Supporters argue his work has helped preserve Crimea's ancient heritage, but critics say he is no better than a looter of Ukrainian history making the most of Russia's occupation. Myrmekion dates back to the 6th Century BC, when the Ancient Greeks settled in Crimea as democracy was being born in Athens. Butyagin's expedition has uncovered hundreds of ancient coins at the site, some from Alexander the Great's period in the 4th Century BC. His expedition continued after Russia seized Crimea from Ukraine, and a criminal case was opened against him by Ukrainian authorities for working there without authorisation. In November 2024, he was placed on a wanted list, and in April 2025 a Kyiv court ordered his arrest in absentia. Butyagin is accused of illegal excavations and "illegal partial destruction" of an archaeological complex. Under the 2nd Protocol to the Hague Convention for the protection of cultural property in the event of armed conflict, occupying authorities "shall prohibit and prevent" any archaeological excavations with only a few, narrow exceptions. Both Poland and Ukraine are parties to the protocol, while Russia is not. Excavations, however ethical, amount to destruction if they take place without permission and under conditions of armed conflict, says Evelina Kravchenko, a senior researcher at the Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Butyagin "violated the Hague Convention, and all his problems stem from that", says Kravchenko, whose committee issued permits for Russian archaeologists to work in Crimea before its annexation. Butyagin told Russian media last year he was "simply doing the work we've devoted our lives to", and that his main goal was preserving monuments. The Hermitage press office insisted Butyagin's work complied with all international legal and ethical norms "regardless of geopolitical circumstances." A senior archaeologist from the museum told the BBC that Butyagin had followed the only path available for Russian archaeologists working in Crimea. "A Russian archaeologist, if he wants to continue his research, has no opportunity to obtain permits from the Ukrainian side, but must obtain them from the Ministry of Culture of the Russian Federation," said the scholar who spoke on condition of anonymity as he was not authorised to comment on the case. Several Ukrainian sources have also accused Butyagin of "looting" objects by taking them to Russia, although these charges are not part of Ukraine's case. Both the archaeologist and the Hermitage insist all their finds remain in Crimea as they are transferred to the Eastern Crimean Museum in Kerch. They argue that objects can only be relocated to Russia temporarily for restoration or as exhibition loans. However, this violates Ukrainian law too, as all discoveries must go into Ukraine's museum fund. Under the terms of Russia's illegal annexation, the Eastern Crimean Museum collection has instead been made part of Russia's museum fund. Since the start of the war, several European courts have refused Ukraine's requests to extradite Russians, citing potential risks under the European Convention, which prohibits politically motivated persecution, violations of the right to a fair trial, and torture and inhuman treatment of detainees. Even if the Polish court deciding Butyagin's case does find sufficient grounds to extradite him, it might not go ahead, says Gleb Bogush, a researcher at the Institute for International Peace and Security Law at the University of Cologne. Last June, Denmark's Supreme Court ruled against extraditing to Ukraine a Russian national suspected of espionage for Moscow. Gleb Bogush says it is primarily the Russian state and its officials that are responsible for Crimean excavations, rather than Butyagin, because it was not up to archaeologists to decide whether the Hermitage expedition should continue. A senior Hermitage employee told the BBC that "a field archaeologist cannot be a citizen of the world; he deals with officials, obtaining permits and has to look for funding and volunteers". Butyagin has attracted support not just from the Kremlin but from Russians who oppose Putin and the war. "The claims being made against him are absurd," said Arseny Vesnin, an exiled journalist and historian. He said Butyagin had ensured conservation and preservation of the site he was excavating. Others maintain that artefacts would have been looted by criminals and sold on the black market if Russian archaeologists had refused to work in Crimea. That does not justify their actions, says Samuel Andrew Hardy, a leading British criminologist specialising in the protection of cultural property in conflict zones. Official excavations do not always stop criminal digs from taking place, he argues. Some looters target sites that have already been excavated. Hardy says all that Butyagin's supporters are doing is arguing that ultimately Russia should just be allowed to carry on doing what it wants regardless of the war. The cushion was from one of the Titanic's 13 lifeboats that took survivors to a rescue ship. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. Marylyn Minett’s school book, her dress and her brother’s football will be preserved by Wales’ national museum. Historian Tim Weeks says the station was "for the nobility" who came down to the Goodwood races. Scott Duffin puts his Coventry memorabilia trove on public display, after five years of collecting. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky has given details of an updated peace plan offering Russia the potential withdrawal of Ukrainian troops from the east and the creation of a demilitarised zone in their place. Detailing the 20-point plan agreed by US and Ukrainian envoys in Florida at the weekend, Zelensky said the Russians would respond on Wednesday once the Americans had spoken to them. Describing the plan as "the main framework for ending the war", he said it proposed security guarantees from the US, Nato and Europeans for a co-ordinated military response if Russia invaded Ukraine again. On the key question of Ukraine's eastern Donbas, Zelensky said a "free economic zone" was a potential option. He told journalists that as Ukraine was against withdrawal, US negotiators were looking to establish a demilitarised zone or a free economic zone. Any area that Ukrainian troops pulled out of would have to be policed by Ukraine, he stressed. "There are two options," Zelensky said, "either the war continues, or something will have to be decided regarding all potential economic zones." The 20-point plan is seen as an update of an original 28-point document, agreed by US envoy Steve Witkoff with the Russians several weeks ago, which was widely seen as heavily geared towards the Kremlin's demands. The Russians have insisted that Ukraine pulls out of almost a quarter of its own territory in the eastern Donetsk region in return for a peace deal. The rest is already under Russian occupation. Sensitive issues including questions over territory would have to be resolved "at the leaders' level", but the new draft would provide Ukraine with strong security guarantees and a military strength of 800,000, Zelensky explained. Much of the updated plan resembles what came out of recent talks in Berlin involving US negotiators Witkoff and Jared Kushner with Ukrainian and European leaders. The setting then moved to Miami last weekend where US President Donald Trump's team spoke separately to Russian envoy Kirill Dmitriev and then Ukrainian and European officials. There now appears to be far more detail on the territorial issue, although it is clear the Ukrainian side was unable to reach a consensus with the Americans. Zelensky explained that if Ukraine was prepared to pull its heavy forces back by five, 10 or 40km in the 25% of Donetsk it still held to create an economic zone, making it virtually demilitarised, then Russia would have to do the same "accordingly by five, 10, or 40km". Russian troops are currently about 40km (25 miles) east of Ukraine's "fortress belt" cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk, having captured the town of Siversk. Russian President Vladimir Putin is unlikely to be impressed by the kind of compromise being proposed for Donetsk. He said this month that Russia would take control of the entire east of Ukraine by force if Ukrainian troops did not pull out. However, Trump is pushing for a deal to end almost four years of full-scale war and the Ukrainian president believes Russia cannot afford to reject the US plan. "They cannot tell President Trump, 'look we're against a peaceful settlement'," Zelensky told reporters. "If they try to obstruct everything, then President Trump would have to arm us heavily, while imposing all possible sanctions against them." Zelensky made clear that if a free economic zone were established in Donetsk it would have to be under Ukrainian administration and police - "definitely not the so-called Russian police". The current front line would then become the boundary of the economic zone with international forces on the ground along the contact line to ensure no Russian infiltration. Russia has so far rejected a European proposal to police any peace deal through a Coalition of the Willing as a "brazen threat". A referendum would need to be held on the whole peace plan, Zelensky said, and only a referendum could decide on the idea of a potential free economic zone in Donbas. He emphasised that an economic zone would also have to be set up around the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant currently occupied by Russia, and that Russian troops would have to pull out of four other Ukrainian regions - Dnipropetrovsk, Mykolaiv, Sumy, and Kharkiv. The current US proposal for the nuclear plant would be for Ukraine, the US and Russia to operate it jointly, but Kyiv disagreed with that, Zelensky said. The main points of the plan reaffirm Ukraine's sovereignty and propose a non-aggression pact between Russia and its neighbour with a monitoring mechanism. As well as strong security guarantees mirroring Nato's Article Five, which requires members to aid an ally under attack, Ukraine is to be allowed a maximum military strength of 800,000 in peacetime. Discussions are still going on over a US plan to receive compensation in return for security guarantees, so Zelensky says it is not currently part of the document. There is no reference barring Ukraine from joining Nato, which was in the original 28-point plan and something Russia has consistently demanded. And the latest framework proposes that Ukraine joins the European Union with a defined date of accession. It is currently a candidate, but a number of other candidate countries are seen as first in line, such as Albania. There are plans for a Ukraine investment fund of about $200bn (£150bn) involving both the US and Europe. Among the other points is a requirement for Ukraine to hold elections as soon as possible after the deal is signed. Russia and the US have both pushed for a vote, even though Ukraine is under martial law because of the full-scale invasion. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Fifty-two residents of a Ukrainian village have been taken to Russia by invading forces in a cross-border raid on the village of Hrabovske, authorities in Kyiv say. Thirteen Ukrainian soldiers were also captured in the border village in the northeastern Sumy region. The attack occurred at night on Saturday, when about 100 Russian troops attacked the village, said Viktor Trehubov, a spokesman for Ukraine's military Joint Forces Task Force. The civilians were first rounded up in a church and then taken across the border to Russia, he told the BBC. It was unusual for invading forces to take civilians to Russia before establishing a firm presence in occupied territory, he added. Russia has so far not commented on the fate of civilians from Hrabovske, but reports from Ukraine indicate they may have been taken to Belgorod, a major regional centre about 50 miles (80 km) inside Russia. "My friends' mother has been taken there. There is no way of contacting her even though they tried," said Volodymyr Bitsak, a member of the Sumy regional council. "As far as I know, they've been taken to the city of Belgorod and are being held at an unknown location." Lt-Col Trehubov told the BBC on Tuesday evening that fighting was still ongoing in the southern part of Hrabovske, but Deep State, a Ukrainian website monitoring the battlefield situation, said later that the village had been captured by Russian forces. The defence ministry in Moscow said on Tuesday that Ukrainian forces had been "hit" at Hrabovske and several other villages in Sumy region. Meanwhile, in the eastern region of Donetsk, the Ukrainian military said it had withdrawn troops from the embattled town of Siversk "to preserve the lives of our soldiers". Russia's capture of the town brings its forces closer to the Donetsk "fortress belt cities" of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk, about 35km (21 miles) to the west. Ukrainian authorities have been working to move civilians away from parts of the Sumy region bordering Russia. But Viktor Babych, a deputy head of the Sumy regional administration, says 56% of residents in border areas are refusing to be leave, and 32,000 civilians including 604 children remain there. Most of the 52 civilians captured in the cross-border raid on Hrabovske were elderly people who had refused official evacuation orders. "It was a smash and grab," said Lt-Col Trehubov. "They quickly rounded everyone up and quickly removed them. This had never happened before. We had never had such raids before." However, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said children had been captured too. "I'm surprised there were children. I'm simply surprised that parents treated their children like that," Zelensky told reporters. "I think they simply did not expect to be taken [to Russia] by Russian military." The vast majority of civilians had already been evacuated from the village, whose pre-war population is reported to be about 700 people. Ukraine's ombudsman Dmytro Lubinets says the civilians "were held incommunicado and in improper conditions" by Russian troops invading Hrabovske before being taken out of Ukraine. "Such actions are a serious violation of international humanitarian law. They violate the laws and customs of war by unlawfully detaining and forcefully deporting civilians," he says. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian troops have withdrawn from the embattled eastern town of Siversk, as Russia continues its steady - albeit slow - advance. The Ukrainian military said on Tuesday it acted "to preserve the lives of our soldiers and the combat capability of units", adding that Russian forces had a "significant advantage in manpower". The capture of Siversk brings Russia closer to the last remaining "fortress belt" cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk still in Ukrainian hands in the industrial Donetsk region. Earlier in the day, officials said three people - including a young child - were killed in massive overnight Russian drone and missile strikes on Ukraine. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, and Moscow currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory. In a statement, the Ukrainian military said Russian troops were continuing "active offensive actions" in the Siversk area "despite significant losses". It added that Ukrainian "defence forces had exhausted the enemy during the fighting for Siversk". Before the Russian invasion, Siversk had about 11,000 people. Two weeks ago Russia had already reported control over the town - but Ukraine denied the claim at the time. Siversk has been virtually wiped out as a town during many months of heavy fighting. Moscow currently controls about 75% of the Donetsk region, and some 99% of the neighbouring Luhansk. The regions are collectively known as Donbas. Russian leader Vladimir Putin has repeatedly warned that Ukrainian troops must withdraw from all of Donbas or Russia will seize it, rejecting any compromise over how to end the war. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has been under heavy pressure from his US counterpart Donald Trump to cede all of Donbas to Russia during ongoing Washington-led peace negotiations. Zelensky has so far rejected any territorial concessions, and instead demanded iron-clad security guarantees for Ukraine in any potential settlement. The peace negotiations - involving separate meetings of US officials with their Ukrainian and Russian counterparts - continued over the weekend but no breakthrough was reported. According to Zelensky, the US had proposed a Christmas truce but Russia rejected the idea. Overnight, Russia launched 635 drones and 38 missiles on a number of Ukrainian regions, Ukraine's air force said, adding that 621 of them were downed. Local authorities in the central Zhytomyr region confirmed a child's death. Regional head Vitaly Bunechko said the child "was taken to hospital, doctors fought for (the child's) life but could not save (the child) in the end". Five others were injured in the strike, he added. Meanwhile, a 76-year-old woman was killed and three people injured when a house in the Kyiv region was struck, according to Ukraine's state emergencies service. An attack in Khmelnytskyy, western Ukraine, killed a 72-year-old, regional administration head Serhiy Tyurin said. Polish fighter jets were scrambled in response to missiles and drones targeting west Ukraine. The Russian defence ministry said it had targeted Ukrainian "military-industrial complex plants and supporting energy facilities". It added that all the designated targets had been hit. Meanwhile, Ukraine reportedly struck a petrochemical plant in Stravropol, southern Russia. Videos shared by Russian media channels online showed large flames rising from the direction of the plant. The region's governor, Vladimir Vladimirov, said a Ukrainian drone hit the plant and sparked a fire. No casualties were reported and residential buildings were left undamaged. Oleksandr Chyrvonyi, who lives in the city of Zaporizhzhia close to the front line,  told the BBC that Monday night was "an extremely unpleasant experience". "I had four or five hours' sleep - there were constant notifications waking me up that drones and cruise missiles were coming," he said, adding that most went past his city to western and central regions. Power cuts are the new normal. Zaporizhzhia has around 10 hours of electricity out of 24, he said. There is a "general feeling of the lack of civilisation", he continued, but said he tries to have "an illusion of a normal life". With temperatures expected to fall to as low as -7C on Wednesday, Ukraine's energy operator warned of emergency power shutdowns "in all regions" and urged people to use energy "sparingly". Acting energy minister Artem Nekrasov said it was the ninth large attack on Ukraine's energy system this year, and that supply in the Rivne, Ternopil and Khmelnytsky regions has been "almost completely" lost. Ukrainian MP Oleksandr Merezhko told the BBC World Service that some areas could be without power "for days". In the Ukrainian capital, many suspect the overnight attack is linked to Monday's killing of a top Russian general after a car bomb exploded in Moscow. Lt Gen Fanil Sarvarov - the head of the armed forces' operational training department - died in the blast, which Russia has blamed on Ukraine. Kyiv has not commented. Additional reporting by Gabriela Pomeroy A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia has intensified its strikes on the southern Ukrainian region of Odesa, causing widespread power cuts and threatening the region's maritime infrastructure. Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Oleksiy Kuleba said Moscow was carrying out "systematic" attacks on the region. Last week, he warned that the focus of the war "may have shifted towards Odesa". President Volodymyr Zelensky said the repeated attacks were an attempt by Moscow to block Ukraine's access to maritime logistics. Earlier in December, Russian President Vladimir Putin threatened to sever Ukraine's access to the sea as retaliation for drone attacks on tankers of Russia's "shadow fleet" in the Black Sea. "Shadow fleet" is a term that refers to hundreds of tankers used by Russia to bypass Western sanctions imposed after its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. On Monday evening, strikes hit port infrastructure in Odesa, damaging a civilian vessel, the regional governor said. It was the latest in a series of hundreds of strikes which have disrupted power supplies in the region for days on end and caused several casualties. On Sunday night, strikes cut off electricity for 120,000 people and sparked a fire at a major port which destroyed dozens of containers of flour and vegetable oil. Last week, a ballistic missile strike on the Pivdenniy port east of Odesa killed eight people and injured at least 30. Another attack earlier in the week killed a woman who was travelling in a car with her three children and temporarily cut off the Odesa region's only bridge linking Ukraine and Moldova. Zelensky indicated a new commander of the air force for the region would be selected soon following the dismissal of Dmytro Karpenko over the weekend. Odesa's port has always been key for the country's economy. The city is Ukraine's third largest after Kyiv and Kharkiv. It now occupies strategic importance as other ports in the Zaporizhzhia, Kherson and Mykolayiv regions are inaccessible to Ukraine due to Russian occupation. Despite the war, Ukraine remains one of the world's top exporters of wheat and corn. Since August 2023, Odesa has been the starting point of a crucial corridor that allows it to export grain out of the country, following the coastlines of Romania and Bulgaria before reaching Turkey. Zelensky, who has previously accused Russia of "sowing chaos" on the people of Odesa, said that "everyone must see that without pressure on Russia, they have no intention of genuinely ending their aggression". His comments came as the latest round of US-led diplomatic efforts wrapped up in Miami. The US separately met the Ukrainian and Russian delegations, with the meetings yielding optimistic statements but no clear progress to bring the end of Moscow's nearly four-year war on Ukraine any closer. US President Donald Trump's special envoy Steve Witkoff said he and his Ukrainian counterpart Rustem Umerov had worked on "aligning positions" on a 20-point draft peace plan put forward by Ukraine earlier this month. The plan is an alternative to a proposal presented by the US in November, which was seen as favourable to Moscow. Before Russian envoy Kirill Dmitriev even returned to Moscow from Florida, Kremlin foreign policy aide Yuri Ushakov told reporters that the European and Ukrainian changes to the peace proposal would not improve the chances of peace being achieved. On Monday, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov accused EU countries of having a "firm aspiration" to derail potential Russia-US agreements on Ukraine and to "in general prevent Russia-American relations getting healthier". He also said European countries were "possessed by a maniacal" fear of a Russian attack. Russia was ready to confirm in a legal agreement that it had no intention of attacking either the EU or Nato, Ryabkov added, echoing previous comments from Putin. "We've never planned to [attack Europe], but if they want to hear it from us, well, let's do it, we'll put it in writing," Putin said in November. Russia also launched an early morning air attack on the capital Kyiv on Tuesday. "Air defence forces are working to eliminate the threat in the sky over the capital," the Kyiv military administration said. There were no immediate reports of casualties or damage from authorities. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US and Ukrainian envoys said talks in Miami aimed at ending the war with Russia had been "productive and constructive" - but no major breakthrough that could bring Moscow and Kyiv closer to peace seems forthcoming. US President Donald Trump's special envoy, Steve Witkoff, issued a joint statement with the top Ukrainian negotiator, Rustem Umerov, after three days of talks alongside European officials. The pair said the meeting focused on aligning positions on a 20-point plan, a "multilateral security guarantee framework", a "US security guarantee framework for Ukraine" and an "economic & prosperity plan". Separate talks also took place in Miami between the US and the Russian envoy, Kirill Dmitriev. "Our shared priority is to stop the killing, ensure guaranteed security, and create conditions for Ukraine's recovery, stability, and long-term prosperity," Witkoff and Umerov said in a statement. The meetings are the latest step in weeks of diplomatic activity, sparked by the leaking of a 28-point US peace plan last month. That plan shocked Ukraine and its European allies for appearing to favour Russia, which launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine nearly four years ago. Witkoff said representatives from Russia had met himself and other US officials in southern Florida, including Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner. The meetings with Russian envoy Dmitriev were also "productive and constructive", Witkoff said, adding that "Russia remains fully committed to achieving peace in Ukraine". On Monday the Kremlin said Dmitriev would travel back to Moscow to debrief Vladimir Putin on US proposals for a potential settlement. Suggestions that a three-way meeting between the US, Russia and Ukraine could be on the cards were brushed off by Moscow. Trump has been pushing Ukraine and Russia to come to an agreement on ending the war, but so far the two countries have been unable to agree on major issues, including Moscow's demand to be handed sections of the Donbas regions it has not managed to seize militarily. US intelligence reports continue to warn that Russian President Vladimir Putin still wants to capture all of Ukraine and reclaim parts of Europe that belonged to the former Soviet empire, six sources familiar with US intelligence told the Reuters news agency. "This absolutely does not correspond to reality," said Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov on Monday. The comments came after Putin told the BBC's Steve Rosenberg that there will be no more wars after Ukraine, if Russia is treated with respect. "There won't be any operations if you treat us with respect, if you respect our interests just as we've always tried to respect yours," he said. Russia has recently intensified its attacks on Ukraine's southern region of Odesa. Ukrainian officials have said the strikes - which on Sunday night hit port and energy infrastructure - were aiming to limit Ukraine's access to the Black Sea and disrupt critical logistics routes to the border with Moldova. Meanwhile, a Ukrainian drone attack damaged two vessels and two piers in Russia's southern Krasnodar region, Russian officials said on Monday. The damage led to a big fire, but Russian authorities say all crew were safely evacuated.  Some reports say oil infrastructure was targeted. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Reporters ask world leaders questions all the time. But what's it like putting a question to Vladimir Putin - the president who ordered the full-scale invasion of Ukraine, the leader whose country was accused this week by the head of MI6 of "the export of chaos"? And imagine asking that question live on TV while millions of Russians are watching. It's a big responsibility. You don't want to mess up. "My question is about Russia's future. What kind of future are you planning for your country and your people?" I ask President Putin. "Will the future be like the present, with any public objection to the official line punishable by law?  Will the hunt for enemies at home and abroad be accelerated? Will mobile internet outages become even more common? Will there be new 'special military operations'?" While I'm speaking, Vladimir Putin is making notes. And then replies. He defends Russia's repressive foreign agent law. Hundreds of Russians who are critical of the authorities have been designated "foreign agents". "We didn't invent it," Putin tells me. "This [foreign agent] law was adopted in a string of Western countries, including in America in the 1930s. And all these laws, including the US one, are much tougher…" In reality, the Russian law is draconian. It excludes "foreign agents" from many aspects of public life, including teaching, the civil service, elections and public events. It imposes financial and property restrictions. Criminal prosecution can follow a single administrative fine. However, I'm unable to point this out to President Putin. The microphone was taken away from me after I'd finished my question. Suddenly the moderator intervenes to change the subject. "There's another question here: 'What's going to happen to the BBC? It's facing a multi-billion lawsuit from the US president?'," says anchor Pavel Zarubin. "I think President Trump is right," President Putin confirms. The Kremlin and the White House seeing eye to eye… on the BBC. "Will there be new special military operations? There won't be, if you treat us with respect, and respect our interests, just as we've always tried to do with you. Unless you cheat us, like you did with Nato's eastward expansion." Visible for all to see is what is driving Vladimir Putin - a deep-seated resentment of the West. He argues that, for years, Western leaders have disrespected, deceived and lied to Russia - and that they're lying still by claiming that Moscow intends to attack Europe. "What kind of rubbish is that?" declares the Kremlin leader. But many European leaders simply don't trust Moscow. In the run-up to the full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine, Russian officials denied they had plans for a mass attack. More recently Russia has been accused of violating European air space with fighter jets and drones, as well as of carrying out cyber-attacks and acts of sabotage. But as he finished answering my question, was this an olive branch to Europe from Russia's president? "We're ready to cease hostilities immediately provided that Russia's medium- and long-term security is ensured, and we are ready to co-operate with you." However, if Moscow continues to connect its long-term security to its maximalist demands over Ukraine, European leaders will remain sceptical. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has said there will be no more wars after Ukraine, if Russia is treated with respect - and dismissed claims that Moscow is planning to attack European countries as "nonsense". In a televised event lasting almost four and a half hours, he was asked by the BBC's Steve Rosenberg whether there would be new "special military operations" - Putin's term for the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. "There won't be any operations if you treat us with respect, if you respect our interests just as we've always tried to respect yours," he asserted. Earlier this month, Putin said Russia was not planning to go to war with Europe, but was ready "right now" if Europeans wanted to. Answering a question from the BBC Russia editor on Friday, Putin also added the condition that there would be no further Russian invasions "if you don't cheat us like you cheated us with Nato's eastward expansion". He has long accused Nato of going back on an alleged 1990 Western promise to then-Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev before the fall of the Soviet Union. Gorbachev later denied the remark had been made. The "Direct Line" marathon combined questions from the public at large and journalists from across Russia in a Moscow hall, with Putin sitting beneath an enormous map of Russia that encompassed occupied areas of Ukraine, including Crimea, which it annexed in 2014. Russian state TV claimed more than three million questions had been submitted. Just hours after the televised marathon, Ukrainian officials said seven people were killed and a further 15 injured in a Russian missile strike on Ukraine's southern Odesa region. Russia's invasion of Ukraine began in February 2022. Although the "Direct Line" was largely choreographed, some critical comments from the public appeared on a big screen, including one that referred to the event as a "circus", another bemoaning internet outages and one that highlighted poor-quality tap water. Mobile internet outages have been blamed by authorities on Ukrainian drone attacks. Putin also addressed Russia's faltering economy, with prices rising, growth on the slide and VAT going up from 20 to 22% on 1 January. One message to the president read: "Stop the crazy rise in prices on everything!" The Kremlin regularly uses the end-of-year event to highlight the resilience of the economy and, as Putin spoke, Russia's central bank announced it was lowering interest rates to 16%. Foreign policy issues were mixed with musings about the motherland, praise for local businesses, fish prices and the importance of looking after veterans. But the issue of almost four years of full-scale war in Ukraine was never far away and it was often in the background of many of the questions. Putin again claimed to be "ready and willing" to end the war in Ukraine "peacefully" but offered little sign of compromise. He repeated his insistence on principles he had outlined in a June 2024 speech, when he demanded that Ukrainian forces leave four regions Russia partially occupies and that Kyiv gives up its efforts to join Nato. Chief among Russia's demands is full control of Ukraine's eastern Donbas, including about 23% of Donetsk region which Russia has not been able to occupy. Putin argued Russian forces were making advances across the front line in Ukraine and he ridiculed Volodymyr Zelensky's visit to the front line at Kupiansk last week, when the Ukrainian leader was able to refute Russia claims that it had captured the town. Putin has also demanded new elections in Ukraine to be included in the peace proposals that US President Donald Trump has submitted as part of his efforts to bring the conflict to an end. At his news conference, Putin offered to stop bombing Ukraine when voting took place. Ukraine's SBU security service said on Friday it had for the first time hit an oil tanker operating as part of Russia's "shadow fleet" in the Mediterranean.  Putin said it would not lead to the result that Kyiv wanted and would not disrupt Russian exports. Most of the questions from Russian media or from the public made little attempt to challenge Putin, but two were allowed from Western correspondents, Keir Simmons of US network NBC and the BBC's Steve Rosenberg. When Simmons asked if Putin would feel responsible for the deaths of Ukrainians and Russians if he rejected the Trump peace plan, Putin praised the US president's "sincere" efforts to end the war, but said it was the West not Russia that was blocking a deal. "The ball is in the hands of our Western opponents," he said, "primarily the leaders of the Kyiv regime, and in this case, first and foremost, their European sponsors." Trump has said a peace deal is closer than ever and, despite Putin's apparent refusal to compromise, the US president has said he hopes "Ukraine moves quickly because Russia is there". A Ukrainian delegation is holding talks in Miami on Friday with Trump envoy Steve Witkoff and Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner. German, French and British officials are also there, days after they met the US officials in Berlin. Kremlin envoy Kirill Dmitriev is also expected in Miami over the weekend, according to reports. Putin told the BBC's Russia Editor: "We are ready to work with you - with the UK and with Europe in general and with the United States, but as equals, with mutual respect to each other. "We are ready to cease these hostilities immediately, provided that Russia's medium- and long-term security is ensured, and we are ready to cooperate with you." He accused the West of creating an enemy out of Russia. Skating over his decision to mount a full-scale invasion in February 2022, he said: "You are waging a war against us with the hands of Ukrainian neo-Nazis," before repeating his regular diatribe against Ukraine's democratically elected leaders. European intelligence agencies have warned that Russia is only a few years away from attacking Nato. The Western defensive alliance's chief Mark Rutte said this month that Russia was already escalating a covert campaign and the West had to be prepared for war. While many of the questions were benign, including several from children, from a one reporter from Yakutia in north-eastern Siberia highlighted a tenfold increase in energy prices in the past four years. Putin told her that his team would look into alternative sources of energy and "keep Yakutia in mind". Towards the end of the TV marathon, Putin was asked a series of quickfire questions, touching on his views on friendship, religion, the motherland and love at first sight. He said he believed in love at first sight - then added that he himself was in love, without divulging any more details. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
European Union leaders have struck a late-night deal to lend Ukraine €90bn (£79bn; $105bn) over the next two years, after failing to agree on using frozen Russian assets. Ukraine was set to run out of cash by next spring, and European Council chief António Costa said the loan would be paid back only when Russia paid reparations for its full-scale war. "We committed, we delivered," said Costa, while Ukrainian Prime Minister Yuliya Svyrydenko praised the deal as "a decisive step for economic resilience". A bid to use €210bn in Russian cash frozen in the EU, mainly in Belgium, ultimately failed as leaders could not convince Belgium's prime minister his country would be protected from Russian retaliation. The bulk of the cash is held by Brussels-based Euroclear and interest from the frozen assets is already being paid to Ukraine. Russia has already launched legal action against the clearing house. Russian President Vladimir Putin accused EU leaders of attempted robbery on Friday and Kirill Dmitriev, his envoy in talks with the US, claimed their failure to agree on using the assets was a "fatal blow". However, Belgium's Bart De Wever said the deal eventually agreed after almost 17 hours of negotiations was a "victory for Ukraine, a victory for financial stability... and a victory for the EU". EU ⁠leaders had avoided "chaos ‍and ‍division", he added. Ukraine needs an estimated €137bn over the next two years to cover both its military and its public services, and the EU plan is to cover two-thirds of that. The €90bn that the EU will raise on the capital markets as part of the loan deal will be "backed by EU budget headroom" - the margin between actual EU contributions by member states in a year and the maximum the European Commission can spend as part of the budget. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he was grateful to European leaders for the "significant support that truly strengthens our resilience". Germany's Friedrich Merz had been a strong supporter of the plan to use Russia's frozen assets. Although the idea has not been dropped, the decision to borrow the money against the EU budget instead is seen as a setback for him. Nevertheless, he declared that it "sends a clear signal from Europe to Putin". Two countries, Hungary and Slovakia, refused to back the compromise deal, while the Czech Republic said it would not guarantee the loan. Hungary's Viktor Orban, seen as Vladimir Putin's closest partner in the EU, has opposed handing any more money to Ukraine, arguing it prolongs the war, and he has condemned the deal. "It looks like a loan, but the Ukrainians will never be able to pay it back," he told reporters. "It is basically losing money." Like Orban, Slovakia's Robert Fico refused to back more funding to allow Ukraine to continue its defence against Russia, but Czech Prime Minister Andrej Babis was careful to point out he agreed to the summit's conclusions "on condition we don't guarantee the loans". Billionaire populist Babis only just formed a government this week, and his stance is a signficant departure from the previous government's staunch support for Ukraine. The EU summit took place as US talks with Russia were set to continue, spearheaded by US President Donald Trump, who said this week that a solution was closer than ever. Dmitriev is expected to meet Trump envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner in Miami at the weekend, according to reports. Meanwhile, a Ukrainian delegation is also due in Miami for talks with their US counterparts, days after Kushner and Witkoff met them and European leaders in Berlin. European allies have made a series of proposals to end the war that include a multinational force as part of "robust security guarantees" for Ukraine. Putin has criticised the European approach, saying he had already agreed to several compromises at his meeting with Trump in Alaska in August. Praising Trump's "serious efforts to end this conflict", the Russian leader said "the ball is entirely and fully in the court of our Western opponents... the head of the Kyiv regime and its European sponsors". Putin's demands were largely reflected in an initial US peace plan and include Ukraine handing over large areas of its own territory. Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said the deal agreed by the EU boosted the Ukrainian position: "There ​is a chance that these negotiations will be ‌about peace not ‍on ‌Russian terms, but on terms that can somehow be accepted and considered ‍acceptable by all parties ‍to this conflict." Meanwhile, French President Emmanuel Macron said he believed it would be "useful" for Europe to re-engage with Putin. "I believe that it's in our interest as Europeans and Ukrainians to find the right framework to re-engage this discussion," he said, adding that Europeans should find the means to do so "in coming weeks". A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
After 17 hours of at times heated debate, EU leaders agreed in the early hours of Friday morning to jointly raise €90bn (£79bn; $105bn) in zero-interest loans to keep Ukraine financially afloat for the next two years. Kyiv had been clear: the money wasn't a nice-to-have; it was a must-have. With the US under Donald Trump no longer looking to provide new direct military aid to Ukraine, the war-torn country has turned to Europe. Without the cash, Volodymyr Zelensky told EU leaders he wouldn't have enough money to pay Ukrainian soldiers or buy the weapons he needed to counter Russian aggression. The now agreed EU loan will be guaranteed by the bloc's common budget. But in a blow to Brussels' desire to demonstrate decisive European unity over Ukraine to EU sceptics in Washington and Moscow, Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic only agreed to support the plan -  it required unanimity to be passed - if they were exempt from it individually. Yet another indication of the divisions in Europe over attitudes to Ukraine and to Moscow. Hungary and Slovakia are known to be closer to the Kremlin. This brings them into direct confrontation with EU countries geographically nearer to Russia such as Poland and the Baltic States. They view Ukraine's survival against Russia as existential. If Kyiv were to lose to Moscow on the battlefield because it was cash or weapons-strapped, they believe that would embolden Russia and would be a disaster for European security and stability more broadly. Arriving at the start of Thursday's fraught summit, Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said EU leaders had a clear decision to make: pay money today, he said, or pay in blood tomorrow. He said he wasn't talking about Ukraine. He was talking about Europe. The new EU joint-loan plan for Ukraine replaces a much-debated EU proposal to raise the €90bn using frozen Russian state assets held in the bloc (€210bn euros' worth in total), mostly in Belgium. Kyiv had described that idea as morally justified, considering the billions of dollars' worth of destruction wreaked by Moscow on Ukraine. But a number of EU countries feared legal retribution by Russia. They worried too that the eurozone's international reputation as a safe destination for global assets could be damaged. Brussels said on Friday it was considering using the frozen Russian assets eventually, to repay the EU loan to Ukraine. But that would be something to be worked out in the future - if a peace deal is signed. For now, on top of the new EU loan, it's estimated Ukraine will need another €45bn euros to cover all its costs for 20262027. Brussels hopes non-EU allies of Ukraine like the UK, Japan and Canada might pick up some of that tab. Not going bankrupt now also opens the door for Kyiv to receive loans from banks like the IMF. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. As war drives up gas and fuel prices, Europeans turn again to the issue of energy independence. Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
This article contains distressing details and references to suicide. Some of the names have been changed to protect identities. Kateryna cannot talk about her son, Orest, without tears. Her voice trembles with anger as she explains how she found out the news that he had died on the front line in the eastern Donetsk region of Ukraine in 2023. According to the official investigation by the army, he died by a "self-inflicted wound", something Katernya finds hard to believe. Kateryna has asked for her and her late son to remain anonymous due to the stigma that surrounds suicide and mental health in Ukraine. Orest was a quiet 25-year-old who loved books and dreamed of an academic career. His poor eyesight had made him initially unfit for service at the start of the war, his mother says. But in 2023, a recruitment patrol stopped him in the street. His eyesight was re-evaluated and he was deemed fit to fight. Not long after, he was sent to the front as a communications specialist. While Ukraine collectively mourns the loss of soldiers who have died since Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022, a quieter tragedy unfolds in the shadows. There are no official statistics surrounding suicide among soldiers. Officials describe them as isolated incidents. Yet human rights advocates and bereaved families believe they may be in the hundreds. "Orest was caught, not summoned," Kateryna says bitterly. The local recruitment centre denied wrongdoing to the BBC, saying impaired vision made Orest "partially fit" during wartime. Once deployed near Chasiv Yar in Donetsk, Orest became increasingly withdrawn and depressed, Kateryna recalls. She still writes letters to her son every day - 650 and counting - her grief made worse by how Ukraine classifies suicide as a non-combat loss. Families of those who take their own lives receive no compensation, no military honours and no public recognition. "In Ukraine, it's as if we've been divided," says Kateryna. "Some died the right way, and others died the wrong way." "The state took my son, sent him to war, and brought me back a body in a bag. That's it. No help, no truth, nothing." For Mariyana from Kyiv, the story is heartbreakingly similar. She too wishes to keep her identity and her late husband's hidden. Her husband Anatoliy volunteered to fight in 2022. He was initially refused because of his lack of military experience but he "kept coming back until they took him", she says with a faint smile. Anatoliy was deployed as a machine-gunner near Bakhmut, one of the bloodiest battles of the war. "He said that, after one mission, about 50 guys were killed," Maryana recalls. "He came back different; quiet; distant." After losing part of his arm, Anatoliy was sent to hospital. One evening, after a phone call with his wife, he took his own life in the hospital yard. "The war broke him," she says through tears. "He couldn't live with what he'd seen." Because Anatoliy died by suicide, officials denied him a military burial. "When he stood on the front line, he was useful. But now he's not a hero?" Mariyana feels betrayed: "The state threw me to the roadside. I gave them my husband, and they left me alone with nothing." She has also felt stigma from other widows. Her only source of support is an online community of women like her - widows of soldiers who took their own lives. They want the government to change the law, so that their bereaved families have the same rights and recognition. Viktoria, who we met in Lviv, still cannot talk about her husband's death publicly for fear of condemnation. Her husband Andriy had a congenital heart condition, but insisted on joining the army. He became a driver in a reconnaissance unit and witnessed some of the most intense battles, including the liberation of Kherson. In June 2023, Viktoria received a phone call telling her Andriy had taken his own life. "It was like the world had collapsed," she says. His body arrived 10 days later, but she was told she could not see it. An attorney she later hired found inconsistencies in the investigation into his death. The photos from the scene made her doubt the official version of her husband's death. The Ukrainian military has since agreed to reopen the investigation, recognising failures. Now she is fighting to re-open the case: "I'm fighting for his name. He can't defend himself anymore. My war isn't over." Oksana Borkun runs a support community for military widows. Her organisation now includes about 200 families bereaved by suicide. "If it's suicide, then he's not a hero - that's what people think," she says. "Some churches refuse to hold funerals. Some towns won't put up their photos on memorial walls." Many of these families doubt the official explanations of death. "Some cases are simply written off too quickly," she adds. "And some mothers open the coffin and find bodies covered in bruises." Military chaplain Father Borys Kutovyi says he has seen at least three suicides in his command since the full-scale invasion began. But to him even one is too many. "Every suicide means we failed somewhere." He believes that many recruited soldiers, unlike career servicemen, are especially psychologically vulnerable. Both Osksana and Father Borys say those who died by suicide should be considered heroes. Olha Reshetylova, Ukraine's Commissioner for Veterans' Rights, says she receives reports of up to four military suicides each month and admits not enough is being done: "They've seen hell. Even the strongest minds can break." She says her office is pushing for systemic reform but it can take years to set up a good military psychology unit. "Families have a right to the truth," she says. "They don't trust investigators. In some cases, suicides may cover up murders." When it comes to honouring these soldiers as military heroes, she prefers to look to the future. "These people were your neighbours, your colleagues," says Ms Reshetylova. "They've walked through hell. The warmer we welcome them, there will be fewer tragedies" With additional reporting by Kevin McGregor, Oleksii Nazaruk and Phoebe Hopson. If you have been affected by any of the issues in this story you can find information and support on the BBC Action online website here. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. The new Inspire service brings together specialist teams to offer coordinated recovery support. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Gummy Johal walks more than 106,000 steps around Wolverhampton's West Park. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Volodymyr Zelensky has called on EU leaders at a crunch summit urgently to agree  to a multi-billion euro loan in frozen Russian money to fund Ukraine's military and economic needs. Ukraine is months from running out of cash and Zelensky said without an injection by spring Ukraine "will have to reduce production of drones". Most of Russia's €210bn (£185bn; $245bn) worth of assets in the EU are held by Belgium-based organisation Euroclear. Until now Belgium and some other member states have said they are opposed to using the cash as a "reparations loan". Russia has warned EU leaders not to use its money, but Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said they had to "rise to this occasion". The Brussels summit comes at a pivotal moment in the war and Russia has filed a lawsuit against Euroclear in a Moscow court in a bid to get its money back. Zelensky said Ukraine was definitely facing a 45-50bn [euro] deficit next year, and European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen vowed "we will not leave the summit without a solution". One European government official described being "cautiously optimistic, not overly optimistic" that a deal would be agreed. All eyes are on Belgian Prime Minister Bart De Wever, who told the Belgian parliament on Thursday that if everything was nailed down and shared by the rest of the EU, "then we'll jump into the abyss together with the rest of the Europeans and hope the parachute holds us". Meanwhile, US President Donald Trump has said a deal is closer than ever to end the war - which began with Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. US and Russian officials are due to meet in Miami this weekend for further talks on a peace plan, a White House official has told AFP news agency. It is thought Kremlin envoy Kirill Dmitriev will talk to Trump envoys Steve Witkoff and Jared Kushner in Miami. Ukrainian officials are also heading to the US, and President Zelensky, who is in Brussels, said Kyiv needed the money, either to support its army if the war continued, or to direct the funding entirely for recovery: "It's moral, it's fair and it's legal, confirmed by the expertise of many, many professionals." Russia has not yet responded to the latest peace proposals, but the Kremlin has stressed that plans for a European-led multinational force for Ukraine supported by the US would not be acceptable. President Vladimir Putin made his feelings towards Europe clear on Wednesday, when he said the continent was in a state of "total degradation" and that "European piglets" - a derogatory description of Ukraine's European allies - were hoping to profit from Russia's collapse. The European Commission - the EU's executive arm - has proposed loaning Kyiv about €90bn (£79bn) over the next two years - out of the €210bn of Russian assets sitting in Europe. That is about two-thirds of the €137bn that Kyiv is thought to need to get through 2026 and 2027. Until now the EU has handed Ukraine the interest generated by the cash but not the cash itself. "This is a crunch time for Ukraine to keep fighting for the next year," a Finnish government official told the BBC. "There are of course peace negotiations but this gives Ukraine leverage to say 'we're not desperate and we have the funds to continue fighting'." The head of the European Commission says it will also ramp up the cost of war for Russia. Russia's frozen assets are not the only option on the table for EU leaders. Another idea, backed by Belgium, is based on the EU borrowing the money on the international markets, using the EU budget as a guarantee. However, that would require a unanimous vote and Hungary's Viktor Orban has made it clear he will not allow any more EU money to help Ukraine. For Ukraine, the hours ahead are significant and EU leaders have been keen to stress the momentous nature of the loan decision. "We know the urgency. It is acute. We all feel it. We all see it," Ursula von der Leyen told the European Parliament on Wednesday. German Chancellor Friedrich Merz has played a leading role in pushing for the Russian assets to be used, telling the Bundestag on the eve of the summit it was about sending a "clear signal" to Moscow that continuing the war was pointless. EU officials are confident they have a sound legal basis to use the frozen Russian assets, but so far the Belgian prime minister remains unconvinced. Hungary is seen as the biggest opponent of the move and, ahead of the summit, Prime Minister Orban and his entourage even suggested that the frozen assets plan had been removed from the summit agenda. A European Commission official stressed that was not the case and it would be a matter for the 27 member states at the summit. Slovakia's Robert Fico has also opposed using the Russian assets, if it means the money being used to procure weapons rather than for reconstruction needs. When the pivotal vote does finally take place, it will require a majority of at least 15 member states making up 65% of Europe's population to go through. Whatever happens, European Council President António Costa has promised not to go over the heads of the Belgians. "We're not going to vote against Belgium," he told Belgian public broadcaster RTBF. "We'll continue to work very intensively with the Belgian government because we don't want to approve something that might not be acceptable for Belgium." Belgium will also be aware that ratings agency Fitch has placed Euroclear on a negative watch, partly because of "low" legal risks to its balance sheet from the European Commission's plans to use the Russian assets. Euroclear's chief executive has also warned against the plan. "We have to find a way to respond to Belgium's worries," the Finnish official added. "We are on the same side as Belgium. We will find a solution together to make sure all the risks are checked as much as they can be checked." However, Belgium is not the only country to have doubts, and a majority is not guaranteed. Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni has told Italian MPs she will endorse the deal "if the legal basis is solid". "If the legal basis for this initiative were not solid, we would be handing Russia its first real victory since the beginning of this conflict." Malta, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic are also said to be unconvinced by the controversial proposals. If the deal is passed and the Russian assets are given to Ukraine, the worst-case scenario for Belgium would be one in which a court would order it to hand the money back to Russia. Some countries have said they would be prepared to provide billions of euros in financial guarantees, but Belgium will want to see the numbers add up. At any rate, Commission officials are confident that the only way for Russia to get it back would be by paying reparations to Ukraine - at which point Ukraine would hand its "reparations loan" back to the EU. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. As war drives up gas and fuel prices, Europeans turn again to the issue of energy independence. Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Briton who fought in Ukraine has been sentenced to 13 years in a maximum-security prison, the Russian Prosecutor-General's office has said. Hayden Davies, a former British soldier who Russia has called a mercenary, was reportedly captured in Ukraine's Donbas region in late 2024 or early 2025 while serving with the country's foreign legion. He was tried in a Russian-controlled court in the city of Donetsk, which is currently occupied by Moscow. The UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) said it strongly condemned the sentencing of Mr Davies "on false charges", adding he was a prisoner of war. It said: "We remain in close contact with Mr Davies' family and are providing consular support." The FCDO said that under international law, prisoners of war cannot be prosecuted for participating in hostilities. It added: "We demand that Russia respect these obligations, including those under the Geneva Conventions, and stop using prisoners of war for political and propaganda purposes." In a statement, Russian prosecutors said Mr Davies joined the Ukrainian army in August 2024 and "took part in military operations against the Russian armed forces on the territory of [Donetsk Region]". In court footage released by prosecutors, a man with a British accent speaks via a translator from inside a barred cage, which is standard practice for many Russian hearings. The man said he was a member of the Ukrainian Army's foreign legion and travelled to Ukraine by bus via Poland. He said he was paid $400 (£300) or $500 a month as a salary. When asked if he pleaded guilty to the charge, the man said "yeah" and nodded his head. It is not clear whether he was speaking under duress. Earlier this year, the FCDO also criticised the case brought against James Anderson, another Briton captured fighting with Ukraine forces, after he was jailed for 19 years for terrorism and mercenary activity. The 22-year-old was the first British national to be convicted by Russia during the war. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
We're driven blindfolded to a secret location where Ukraine is making one of its latest weapons. We're told to turn off our phones - such is the secrecy around the production of Ukraine's Flamingo cruise missile. For Ukraine, dispersing and hiding the production of weapons like this is key to survival. Two factories belonging to the company that makes it - Fire Point - have already been hit. Inside the one we're visiting we're told not to film any features such as pillars, windows or ceilings. We're also asked not to show the faces of workers on the assembly line - where Flamingo missiles are at various stages of completion. Even under fire, Ukraine is ramping up its arms industry. President Volodymyr Zelensky says the country now produces more than 50% of the weapons it uses on the front line. Almost its entire inventory of long-range weapons is domestically made. At the start of the war Ukraine mostly relied on its old Soviet-era arsenal. Western military support helped modernise the country's armed forces, but it now leads much of the world in developing unmanned systems – like robots and drones. Now, domestically produced cruise missiles are adding to Ukraine's long-range capability. Iryna Terekh is the chief technical officer of Fire Point – one of Ukraine's largest drone and missile manufacturers whose Latin motto translates to "if not us, then who". The 33-year-old once studied architecture, but she is now trying to help dismantle the Russian war machine. She cuts a tiny figure in front of the giant Flamingo missile, which she tells me is painted black not pink (unlike early prototypes) "because it eats Russian oil". The end product looks similar to the German V1 rocket from World War Two. It consists of a large jet engine placed on top of a tube the length of a London bus. They've already been used in combat, though the company won't confirm specific targets. The Flamingo is the kind of deep-strike weapon that Western nations have been reluctant to supply. The cruise missile is said to have a range of 3,000km (1,900 miles). That's similar to a US-made Tomahawk – the more sophisticated and expensive weapon that US President Donald Trump refused to give Ukraine. But deep strikes are seen as a critical part of the war, for which Ukraine mainly uses long-range drones. It is still losing ground to Russia on a front line that stretches for more than a thousand kilometres. So Ukraine is increasingly trying to target Russia's war economy, to slow those advances. The head of Ukraine's Armed Forces, General Oleksandr Syrskyi, says Ukraine's long-range strikes have already cost the Russian economy more than $21.5bn this year. Ruslan, an officer in Ukraine's Special Operations Forces, says the strategy is simple: "To reduce the enemy's military capabilities and their economic potential." He says Ukraine's Special Operations Forces have carried out hundreds of strikes on oil refineries, weapons factories and ammunition dumps - deep inside enemy territory. Of course Russia has been doing the same, and on a greater scale. On average it has been launching around 200 Shahed drones a day; Ukraine's response has been about half that number. Nor is Russia limiting its strikes to military targets. Its long-range missile and drone attacks have led to massive power cuts right across the country – making life harder for millions of civilians. "I'd like to launch as many drones as Russia does," Ruslan says. "But we're scaling up very quickly". Ms Terekh, of Fire Point, says Ukraine may not be able to match Russia's resources, but, she says, "we are trying to fight with brains and tactics". Denys Shtilerman, the chief designer and co-founder of the company, admits there is no "Wunderwaffe" – or wonder weapon. "The game changer is our will to win," he says. Fire Point didn't even exist before Russia's full-scale invasion. But the start-up is now producing 200 drones a day. Its FP1 and FP2 drones, each the size of a small aeroplane, have carried out 60% of Ukraine's long-range strikes. Each drone costs around $50,000 - a third of the price of a Russian Shahed drone. Russia is still producing nearly 3,000 of those a month. Ukraine still needs outside help, not least with intelligence, targeting and money. But it is trying to be more self-sufficient. Ms Terekh says they've made a deliberate decision to source as many of their components as possible from within Ukraine. "We are following the principle that no one can influence the weapons we build," she says. They avoid parts from two specific countries – China and the United States. Asked why there should be no American components, she says "we're on an emotional roller coaster [with the US]. Tomorrow somebody may want to shut it down, and we would not be able to use our own weapons." Until the end of last year, under President Biden, the United States supplied nearly $70bn-worth of military support to Ukraine. That was soon stopped under President Trump – instead he has set up a scheme to allow European Nato to purchase US weapons. The US is no longer Ukraine's biggest military backer, and Europe has struggled to fill the gap left by America or to match its previous support. Concerns about future US support spills over into talk of future US security guarantees – a key issue of the current peace talks. Ms Terekh dismisses the ongoing negotiations as "capitulation talks", and says that Ukraine making its own weapons "is the only way to really provide security guarantees". The former architecture student also hopes that the rest of Europe will be watching, and learning lessons. "We are a bloody example," she says, "in terms of being prepared for war." Ms Terekh says she wants to shock them into action, and believes that if any other country had faced the same onslaught as Ukraine "then they'd already have been conquered." Additional reporting by Volodymyr Lozhko and Kyla Herrmannsen. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's biggest private energy provider is living in permanent crisis mode because of Russian attacks on the grid, its chief executive has told the BBC. Most of Ukraine is suffering from lengthy power cuts as temperatures drop and Maxim Timchenko, whose company DTEK provides power for 5.6 million Ukrainians, says the intensity of strikes has been so frequent "we just don't have time to recover". President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Tuesday that Russia knew the winter cold could become one of its most dangerous weapons. "Every night Ukrainian parents hold their children in basements and shelters hoping our air defence will hold," he told the Dutch parliament. As the fourth anniversary of Russia's full scale invasion approaches, Maxim Timchenko says Russia has repeatedly targeted DTEK's energy grid with "waves of drones, cruise and ballistic missiles" and his company has found it difficult to cope. Tens of thousands of people in the southern city of Odesa have been without electricity for three days this week, following a co-ordinated Russian attack. "Life has been difficult, but people are very supportive of each other," says Yana, who is among those lucky enough still to have power. She has invited friends to her home to charge their phones. Power outages also cut off heat and water supplies and Yana says those still connected to the grid have offered strangers the chance to wash or take a shower. Across Ukraine electricity is being rationed – with supplies turned on for a few hours each day. Many Ukrainians rely on power banks and generators as a back-up, and the sound of generators in the capital is now more constant than the air raid warnings. Kyiv resident Tetiana says the first thing she does in the morning is to check her phone to find out the daily schedule for when her power will be switched on. Like many she has invested in power banks to make life more bearable: "You need to remember when you leave home to leave the powerbanks on so that you have them charged when you get back home." About 50% of Ukraine's energy is currently supplied by three large nuclear power plants in central and western Ukraine. But the network that transfers that power has been severely damaged. DTEK runs about 5 power stations, most of them fuelled by coal. One was recently targeted by five 5 ballistic missiles and Mr Timchenko said some of their power plants and sub stations had been attacked "every three or four days". "I don't remember a single day when I had no reports about some damage to our grid." Finding spare parts to repair damaged equipment has become a significant challenge. The energy provider used to be able to source equipment from within Ukraine, but now it has to scour the ret of Europe for replacement parts. This year DTEK has had to spend $166m (£123m) on repairing its damaged thermal power plants and coal facilities. "We will not give up," Maxim Timchenko insists: "We have a responsibility to millions of mothers to have power and heat". DTEK's origins are in the Donbas in Eastern Ukraine where the fighting is fiercest and where power supplies have been disrupted the most. Eight of its engineers have been killed doing their job. "Every day they risk their lives to keep power in this area," Mr Timchenko said. Additional reporting by Anastasia Levchenko and Kyla Herrmannsen. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US has said it is ready to offer Ukraine Nato-like security guarantees to safeguard an eventual ceasefire, following talks in Berlin with European officials and a delegation from Kyiv. The "very strong" guarantees would be modelled on Nato's Article 5 clause of mutual protection, US officials said, adding that the Russians would hopefully agree to them. While US officials talked up progress towards ending the war, there was little detail on how the thorny issue of Ukraine's sovereignty would be resolved in any peace deal. Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky described the meeting as "productive" but not easy. He added that Kyiv needed a "clear understanding of security guarantees" before it could make any decisions about other contentious issues. Ukraine has long argued it needs watertight guarantees to ensure that Russia respects any ceasefire and does not attack the country again. US officials described the security guarantees on offer as the "platinum standard", but cautioned the deal "would not be on the table forever". On Sunday, Zelensky signalled for the first time that as a "compromise" he would give up ambitions to join Nato in exchange for strong guarantees. While there appears to be significant movement on the issue of security, the eastern region of the Donbas remains a major sticking point. The US is now suggesting an "economic-free zone" could be established in the contested part of the Donbas, but that would require Ukraine accepting to withdraw from the areas it still holds, while Russia would not be expected to do the same. "It seems to me that [the US and Ukraine] so far have different positions, to be honest," Zelensky said. US officials said that if the economic free zone could be defined, "then it will really be up to the parties to work out the final issues of sovereignty." But Moscow and Kyiv remain far apart on the issue of the Donbas. Russia mostly occupies the region and it wants Kyiv to hand it over in its entirety, which Ukraine is staunchly refusing to do. The US officials said Washington was now willing to submit a security package for Senate ratification. Speaking from the White House, US President Donald Trump said he had spoken to Zelensky and European leaders, describing it as a "very good talk". "I think we're closer now than we have been, ever," he said, referring to reaching a peace deal. German Chancellor Friedrich Merz, who hosted the discussions, struck a similar tone earlier on Monday, saying "this is the first time a ceasefire is conceivable." "It's a huge progress which I welcome very much," he said, describing Washington's security guarantees as "remarkable". Several European leaders, as well as European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, will join further talks with the Ukrainian and US delegations on Monday evening. At the core of the discussions in Berlin is the 20-point peace plan proposal which Ukraine presented to the US last week, to counter an initial American plan which was seen as heavily favouring Russia. Details haven't been shared, but last week Zelensky said the points should be seen as a "foundation" on which to build provisions for the reconstruction of Ukraine and security guarantees. Any proposal hashed out by the Ukrainian, American and European side will still have to be presented to Moscow – although Zelensky said that the US delegation "so to speak present the Russian side's perspective, because they relay Russia's signals, demands, steps, and indications of readiness or lack thereof." The Kremlin said it expected the US to provide it with the "concept" discussed on Monday. The talks in Berlin come at a crucial time for Ukraine, which is enduring its fourth winter of war amid sustained power cuts caused by Russia's attacks on its energy facilities. Over the weekend more than a million Ukrainian households were left without electricity following a barrage of strikes. Zelensky said on Monday that there was not a "single functioning power station" that had not been attacked by the Russians. Later this week, EU countries will be voting on a plan to send €90bn (£78.6bn) worth of frozen Russian assets held in a Belgium-based financial institution to prop up Ukraine's economy. On Friday, EU governments agreed to immobilise the Russian assets indefinitely - but there is no consensus yet on whether they can be sent to Ukraine. Belgium has been resisting the legally contentious proposal, and in recent days other countries, including Italy, have said "alternative options" should be put forward. EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas acknowledged the discussions were "increasingly difficult". "But we're doing the work, and we still have some days," she added. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
More than a million households are without electricity in Ukraine after a barrage of overnight Russian strikes hit energy and industrial infrastructure, officials said. Ukraine's internal affairs minister, Ihor Klymenko, said five regions were hit and at least five people were injured, and work was under way to extinguish fires and restore supplies. While Russian attacks on Ukrainian energy infrastructure have been common throughout the war, Moscow has intensified strikes as the country heads into winter. It comes as US President Donald Trump's overseas envoy will travel to Germany this weekend to meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and European leaders for more talks on ending the war. Steve Witkoff, who has been leading White House attempts to mediate between Ukraine and Russia, will discuss the latest version of the proposed peace agreement in Berlin. On Saturday, Zelensky said more than 450 drones and 30 missiles were used by Russia in overnight strikes. Klymenko said the Dnipropetrovsk, Kirovohrad, Mykolaiv, Odesa and Chernihiv regions were hit. Russia's defence ministry said it used weapons including Kinzhal hypersonic missiles in the strikes - which are hard to track as they can change direction mid-flight. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) said Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant temporarily lost all offsite power overnight "due to widespread military activities affecting the electrical grid", but is now reconnected. The plant is in Russian-controlled territory in Ukraine. It is not operating, but relies on a constant power supply to cool its reactors. In Russia, regional governor Roman Busargin said two people were killed in Saratov after a drone strike hit a residential building. The Trump administration is pushing for a deal to end the war to be in place by Christmas and has held several rounds of talks with Ukrainian and Russian representatives in recent weeks, though there has been little sign a breakthrough is imminent. It has not yet been confirmed which European leaders will attend the Berlin talks. The Wall Street Journal, which first reported details of the meeting, said UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz would all take part. The Witkoff-Zelensky meeting comes after Ukraine gave the US its revised version of a 20-point peace plan, the latest iteration of a proposal which first emerged in late November and has triggered a flurry of diplomatic activity. The fate of territory in eastern Ukraine remains one of the most intractable topics in the negotiations, with Kyiv refusing to cede land which has been illegally occupied, and Moscow repeating its intention to take the Donbas region in full by force unless Ukraine withdraws. Zelensky has reacted sceptically to the White House's latest proposal on resolving the territorial question, which is for Ukraine's army to pull out of the region and for it to be turned into a "special economic zone". The Ukrainian president told reporters that under the US-proposed terms, the Kremlin would undertake not to advance into the areas vacated by Ukraine's forces, with the land between Russian-controlled parts of the Donbas and Ukraine's defensive lines effectively turned into a demilitarised zone. "What will restrain [Russia] from advancing? Or from infiltrating disguised as civilians?" said Zelensky. In public, Ukraine and its allies in Europe have described the US-led talks as fruitful, and have hailed progress on securing amendments to a plan which was widely viewed as favouring Russia when it first emerged. But there have been signs in recent weeks that Trump is losing patience with Zelensky and his backers on the continent. In a scathing interview with Politico earlier this week, the US president labelled European leaders "weak" and renewed his calls for Ukraine to hold elections. Zelensky said elections could be held within 90 days if the US and Europe provided the necessary security. Elections have been suspended since martial law was declared when Russia launched its full-scale invasion in February 2022. As the White House's diplomatic push continues, attention in Europe is focused on how to support Ukraine in the event of a peace deal, with talks ongoing over security guarantees and funding. The Ukrainian government faces a stark financial situation: it needs to find an extra €135.7bn (£119bn; $159bn) over the next two years. On Friday, EU nations agreed to indefinitely freeze around €210bn (£185bn; $247) worth of Russian assets held in Europe. It is hoped the agreement paves the way for the funds to be loaned back to Ukraine if a deal can be reached at an EU summit next week, providing Kyiv with financial help for its military and efforts to rebuild parts of the country left devastated after nearly four years of all-out war. That move has been condemned as theft by the Kremlin, and Russia's central bank has said it will sue Euroclear, a Belgian bank where the vast majority of Russian assets frozen after the invasion are held. Officials are still negotiating the exact structure of a deal to repurpose the Russian assets on behalf of Ukraine, with the Belgian government particularly sceptical due to its legal exposure as the main holder. Elsewhere, it was reported that the latest version of the peace plan being circulated envisions Ukraine rapidly joining the European Union. The Financial Times said Brussels backed Ukraine's swift accession to the bloc, an idea proposed by Ukraine in the latest draft it has given to Washington. Ukraine formally applied to join the EU days after the 2022 invasion, but despite promises of an accelerated process is still several years away from becoming a member. Under the plan, Ukraine would become a member as soon as January 2027, AFP reported, citing an unnamed senior official. It was unclear whether Washington had approved that element of the draft. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Warehouses supplying the vast majority of Ukraine's pharmacies have been destroyed in a series of Russian attacks over recent months. Medical supplies worth about $200m (£145m) were destroyed in just two strikes in December and October. A large warehouse storing medicines in the city of Dnipro was destroyed in a Russian air strike on 6 December. As a result, about $110m worth of medicines were destroyed - estimated at up to 30% of Ukraine's monthly supply. "It was a missile and drone strike against our facility. The missiles flew past, but the drones hit it," said Dmytro Babenko, acting director-general of pharmaceutical distributor BADM. "They caused a fire which unfortunately proved impossible to contain and the whole facility was destroyed." BADM is one of two companies that supply about 85% of Ukrainian pharmacies in roughly equal shares. The other company is Optima Pharm, whose warehouses have been hit three times this year - on 28 August, 25 October and 15 November. The October attack destroyed its main storage facility in Kyiv, and cost the company more than $100m, says Optima Pharm's chief financial officer Artem Suprun. Russia denies hitting civilian targets, but when the Optima Pharm warehouse was hit in October, the defence ministry in Moscow said only that it had targeted a factory producing drones. On the day BADM's warehouse was destroyed, Russia said it had hit "a warehouse storing military equipment" as well as energy and transport infrastructure. Such attacks significantly complicate the treatment of sick and wounded in Ukraine,   after almost four years of Russia's full-scale war. The International Rescue Committee (IRC), an NGO that had been using the warehouse in Dnipro, says it lost $195,000 worth of medication and supplies, which could have served 30,000 people in need. "When I arrived at the site I was devastated, the scene was simply awful. All of this medicine could have served people for years, and in a single moment it was all lost," says the IRC's Andriy Moskalenko. The IRC said the Dnipro facility had served "as a critical hub for hospitals, healthcare providers, pharmacies and humanitarian actors". Mr Babenko from BADM said the Russian attack had destroyed "vitally important medicines" that had been imported and are not produced in Ukraine. "It's a pretty complicated situation," he told the BBC. But he is hopeful that the attack will not leave Ukrainians without medicines. "There won't be significant shortages, possibly only of certain types of goods. We're hoping to restore all supplies in a month or a month-and-a-half," Mr Babenko said. Ukrainian authorities accuse Russia of deliberately targeting hospitals, ambulances, medics and rescue workers, claims Moscow has denied. According to the government in Kyiv, more than 2,500 medical institutions have been damaged or destroyed, and more than 500 civilian doctors, nurses and other medical workers killed. Earlier this month, the World Health Organization said it had recorded 2,763 attacks on Ukraine's healthcare system since the start of Russia's full-scale invasion, and it said that in 2025 there had been a 12% increase in attacks from the previous year. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A large fire broke out on a Turkish car ferry anchored at the Ukrainian port city of Odesa after it was hit in a strike on Friday. The company that operates the Cenk T confirmed the attack occurred at 16:00 local time (14:00 GMT) shortly after it docked at the Chornomorsk port. Ukraine's President Volodymr Zelensky has blamed the strike on Russia, which has not commented. The attack came hours after Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan told Russian President Vladimir Putin that a limited ceasefire for energy facilities and ports could be beneficial. Russia has resisted all calls for a ceasefire. Moscow has threatened to cut "Ukraine off from the sea" in response to Kyiv's maritime drone attacks on Russia's "shadow fleet" tankers thought to be used to export oil - and a main source for funding the ongoing war. Cenk Denizcilik, the company that owns the cargo ship that operates on the Karasu-Odesa route across the Black Sea, said on Friday that it had been carrying "essential food supplies" when it was hit shortly after anchoring at the Ukrainian port city. Emergency response measures were immediately activated with the vessel's crew, port fire brigade and assisting tugboats after a fire broke out on the forward section of the ship, the company's statement added. "At this stage, there are no reports of casualties or injuries among the crew," it said. Video footage of the attack's aftermath, which was shared on Zelensky's Telegram account, shows crews attempting to extinguish a large blaze on the vessel. While condemning a series of missile attacks that Russia had carried out on the Odesa region the night before, the Ukrainian leader blamed Moscow for targeting the civilian Turkish ship, saying it "could not have any military meaning". Turkey's foreign ministry said an agreement should be reached that would guarantee "the security of shipping and suspending attacks against energy and port infrastructure in order to prevent escalation in the Black Sea". "We once again underline the importance of urgently ending the war between Russia and Ukraine," the ministry said. Turkey has sought to maintain relations with the two warring countries since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine began in February 2022. It also controls the Bosphorus Strait, which is a key passage for transporting Ukrainian grain and Russian oil out to the Mediterranean. Russia carried out a second round of strikes on Odesa later in the evening which damaged the port infrastructure facility, according to the region's head of administration. "[This] emphasises the deliberate nature of enemy strikes on the civilian infrastructure of the region," Oleg Kiper wrote in a Telegram post. Friday's strikes knocked out electricity for thousands of homes in Odesa. This comes as US President Donald Trump appears to have grown frustrated by the slow progress his administration is making in securing a deal to end the war between Ukraine and Russia. Despite Washington's recent diplomatic push, Kyiv and Moscow have rejected key parts of the Trump administration's proposal. While Ukraine is adamant that there should be security guarantees from the US and Europe in place before agreeing to an end to the war, Russia is continuing to demand territorial concessions - which Kyiv has resisted. Russia has been making slow gains on the ground recently. But claims it is in control of key hubs, such as the key town of Pokrovsk - a strategic point on a big road and rail artery in the eastern  Donetsk region - are being denied by the Ukrainians. And in a show of defiance on Friday, President Zelensky posted a video of himself in  Kupyansk - which Moscow claimed to have captured last month. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. The final six nations have qualified for the 2026 World Cup - this is your essential lowdown on the expanded edition of the tournament. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
European Union governments have agreed to immobilise indefinitely Russian assets of up to €210bn (£185bn) that have been frozen in the EU since the start of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Most of Moscow's cash is held in Belgian bank Euroclear, and European leaders are hoping to agree a deal at next week's crunch EU summit that would use the money for a loan to help Kyiv fund its military and economy. After almost four years of Russia's full-scale war Ukraine is running out of cash, and needs an estimated €135.7bn (£119bn; $159bn) over the next two years. Europe aims to provide two-thirds of that, but Russian officials accuse the EU of theft. The Russian Central Bank said on Friday it was suing Belgian bank Euroclear in a Moscow court, in response to the EU loan plan. Russia's assets in the EU were frozen within days of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, and €185bn of that is held by Euroclear. The EU and Ukraine argue that money should be used to rebuild what Russia has destroyed: Brussels calls it a "reparations loan" and has come up with a plan to prop up Ukraine's economy to the tune of €90bn. "It's only fair that Russia's frozen assets should be used to rebuild what Russia has destroyed – and that money then becomes ours," says Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky. German Chancellor Friedrich Merz says the assets will "enable Ukraine to protect itself effectively against future Russian attacks". Russia's court action was expected in Brussels and European Economic Commissioner Valdis Dombrovskis said on Friday that EU financial institutions were "fully protected" from legal proceedings. But it is not just Moscow that is unhappy. Belgium is worried it will be saddled with an enormous bill if it all goes wrong and Euroclear chief executive Valérie Urbain says using it could "destabilise the international financial system". Euroclear also has an estimated €16-17bn immobilised in Russia. Belgian Prime Minister Bart De Wever has set the EU a series of "rational, reasonable, and justified conditions" before he will accept the reparations plan, and he has refused to rule out legal action if it "poses significant risks" for his country. The EU is working to the wire ahead of next Thursday's summit to come up with a solution that Belgium can accept. Until now the EU has held off touching the assets themselves directly but since last year has paid the "windfall profits" from them to Ukraine. In 2024 that was €3.7bn. Legally using the interest is seen as safe as Russia is under sanction and the proceeds are not Russian sovereign property. But international military aid for Ukraine has slipped dramatically in 2025, and Europe has struggled to make up the shortfall left by the US decision to all but stop funding Ukraine under President Donald Trump. There are currently two EU proposals aimed at providing Ukraine with €90bn, to cover two-thirds of its funding needs. One is to raise the money on capital markets, backed by the EU budget as a guarantee. This is Belgium's preferred option but it requires a unanimous vote by EU leaders and that would be difficult when Hungary and Slovakia object to funding Ukraine's military. That leaves loaning Ukraine cash from the Russian assets, which were originally held in securities but have now largely matured into cash. That money is Euroclear property held in the European Central Bank. The EU's executive, the European Commission, accepts Belgium has legitimate concerns and says it is confident it has dealt with them. The plan is for Belgium to be protected with a guarantee covering all the €210bn of Russian assets in the EU. Should Euroclear suffer a loss of its own assets in Russia, a Commission source explained that would be offset from assets belonging to Russia's own clearing house which are in the EU. If Russia went after Belgium itself, any ruling by a Russian court would not be recognised in the EU. In a key development, EU ambassadors have agreed that Russia's central bank assets held in Europe should be immobilised indefinitely. Until now they have had to vote unanimously every six months to renew the freeze, which could have meant a repeated risk to Belgium. The EU ambassadors used an emergency clause under Article 122 of the EU Treaties so the assets remain frozen as long as an "immediate threat to the economic interests of the union" continues, or until Russia pays war reparations to Ukraine in full. Swedish Finance Minister Elisabeth Svantesson said the decision was an "important step in enabling more support for Ukraine and protecting our democracy". Belgium is adamant it remains a staunch ally of Ukraine, but sees legal risks in the plan and fears being left to handle the repercussions if things go wrong. A usually divided political landscape in this case has rallied behind Prime Minister Bart De Wever, who is under pressure from European colleagues. "Very important decisions" would be made by the EU in the coming week, he said during a meeting with UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer in London on Friday. He added that Belgium and the UK would work together to "get the certainty that we can support Ukraine to stay a free, democratic and sovereign country". The EU believes it can secure sufficient guarantees for the loan itself, but Belgium fears an added risk of being exposed to extra damages or penalties. "Belgium is a small economy. Belgian GDP is about €565bn – imagine if it would need to shoulder a €185bn bill," says Veerle Colaert, professor of financial law at KU Leuven University. She also believes the requirement for Euroclear to grant a loan to the EU would violate EU banking regulations. "Banks need to comply with capital and liquidity requirements and shouldn't put all their eggs in one basket. Now the EU is telling Euroclear to do just that. "Why do we have these bank rules? It's because we want banks to be stable. And if things go wrong it would fall to Belgium to bail out Euroclear. That's another reason why it's so important for Belgium to secure water-tight guarantees for Euroclear." There is no time to lose, warn seven EU member states including those closest geographically to Russia such as the Baltics, Finland and Poland. They believe the frozen assets plan is "the most financially feasible and politically realistic solution". "It's a matter of destiny for us," says leading German conservative MP Norbert Röttgen. "If we fail, I don't know what we'll do afterwards. That's why we have to succeed in a week's time". While Russia is adamant its money should not be touched, there are added concerns among European figures that the US may want to use Russia's frozen billions differently, as part of its own peace plan. Zelensky has said Ukraine is working with Europe and the US on a reconstruction fund, but he is also aware the US has been talking to Russia about future co-operation. An early draft of the US peace plan referred to $100bn of Russia's frozen assets being used by the US for reconstruction, with the US taking 50% of the profits and Europe adding another $100bn. The remaining assets would then be used in some kind of US-Russia joint investment project. An EU source said the added advantage of Friday's expected vote to immobilise Russia's assets indefinitely made it harder for anyone to take the money away. Implicit is that the US would then have to win over a majority of EU member states to vote for a plan that would financially cost them an enormous sum. Hungary's Viktor Orban, seen as Russia's closest partner in the EU, said Europe's leaders were "placing themselves above the rules" and replacing the rule of law with the rule of bureaucrats. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. As war drives up gas and fuel prices, Europeans turn again to the issue of energy independence. Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
More than 160 shoeboxes containing presents for children will be travelling from Herefordshire to Ukraine this weekend. The items, supplied by people in the county, will be driven almost 2,000 miles to Kharkiv, near the Russian border, where they will be handed out. The boxes contain items like toys, books, sweets, clothing, school supplies and Christmas cards. It follows an appeal from the Hereford Help for Ukraine support group in October. Vitalii Drobotun, one of the volunteers, said: "We cannot thank people enough for their generosity." He said they would "mean so much" to every child that receives them. "The kindness of the British people is bringing hope and light, during what is a very dark time for Ukrainian children," he added. Kharkiv has been chosen as the destination this year because the city and wider region has come under sustained Russian attack during recent months, leaving some children orphaned. It is located about 19 miles from the north-eastern border with Russia, and has been subjected to frequent attacks, with many people having to shelter underground. Volunteers in Hereford have linked up with church leaders in the region, who will help distribute the shoeboxes to children. Valetyna Antonoa, one of the volunteers, said: "This will help more than 160 children have a happier Christmas. "I'm very grateful for me, for the children who will get these presents, and for the whole of Ukraine." Eddie Clark, from Hereford who is helping, said the response had been ""quite amazing" considering how long the war had been going on. Follow BBC Hereford & Worcester on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US has proposed Ukraine withdraw from the eastern Donetsk region and create a "special economic zone" in the areas it currently controls, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said. Zelensky said territory and control of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant remained the two main unresolved issues in the peace plan proposal for Ukraine. In a sobering briefing to reporters, Zelensky addressed the US desire for a quick end to the conflict, the complex nature of the ongoing negotiations, and his belief that Russia had no desire to stop the war. Ukraine has sent the US an updated 20-point plan plus separate documents on security guarantees and provisions for Ukraine's reconstruction, Zelensky said. It follows weeks of high-level diplomatic activity which has seen several peace plans drawn up, adjusted and revised by the US, Ukraine, Russia and European leaders. "The final mile is the hardest. Everything could fall apart for many reasons," Zelensky said on Thursday. Russia demands that Ukraine relinquish control of roughly 30% of the eastern Donetsk region it still holds - something Ukraine has refused to do, both on principle and because it fears it would allow Moscow a foothold for future invasions. According to Zelensky, the US is now envisaging a solution that would see Ukrainian forces withdraw from parts of Donetsk, and Russian forces committing to not advancing into the territory. This area would become a "special economic zone" or a "demilitarised zone", Zelensky said. However, he noted that it would not be fair for the Ukrainians to withdraw unilaterally, and that Russia should also pull back by the same distance. "What will restrain [Russia] from advancing? Or from infiltrating disguised as civilians?" he asked. Zelensky said these were "very serious concerns" and that Ukraine might not accept the proposal at all – although he opened the door to elections or a referendum to give the Ukrainian people a choice. But he acknowledged that the fighting would continue and may yet shape the future of the negotiations: "Much depends on our military – what they can hold, where they can stop the enemy, what they can destroy. This affects the entire configuration." The management of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant was another highly contentious point, Zelensky said. The power plant – Europe's largest – sits on the front line and has been under Russian control since March 2022. Zelensky said a possible solution would be for the Russians to withdraw and Kyiv to share control of the plant with the Americans – although he acknowledged that the details of such an arrangement were still unclear, and it is doubtful that Moscow would agree. US President Donald Trump appears to have grown frustrated with the intricacies of the conflict, and Kyiv and its allies fear the Americans might eventually seek to impose a Russian-led solution on Ukraine. Zelensky told reporters that although the Americans wanted a "quicker conclusion" to the war, there were no deadlines for an agreement. Ukraine - which is targeted by widespread aerial attacks on a near-nightly basis - has been pushing for respite and would want an immediate ceasefire to be implemented ahead of a more laborious agreement being fleshed out. But Russia stands to gain more from a ceasefire being delayed, as its troops continue to make small but incremental gains on the frontline and its attacks exhaust the Ukrainian population. "After multiple rounds of talks with Russia" the Americans were now aligned on Moscow on this position, Zelensky said. Kremlin officials have been more tight-lipped than their European, US and Ukrainian counterparts. However, whenever possible, Russia has sought to cement the impression that Moscow and Washington are aligned on their hopes for the terms of a peace deal. On Thursday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov praised Trump for trying to broker a deal and said a recent meeting between President Vladimir Putin and US envoy Steve Witkoff at the Kremlin had "eliminated" the "misunderstandings" between the two sides. The foreign minister also batted off suggestions that Kyiv could be given security guarantees in the form of foreign troops stationed in Ukraine. "This is yet another return to the sad logic of Zelensky's so-called peace formula," Lavrov said, adding that Moscow had handed the US "additional" proposals on collective security and that Russia was ready to give legal guarantees not to attack Nato or EU countries. But neither Ukraine nor Europe will be likely to take any promise by Moscow at face value, given Russia has previously violated ceasefires and truce deals. European and Ukrainian officials want the US to be involved in giving security guarantees so that Kyiv doesn't become the target of renewed attacks. Zelensky said he had received a draft proposal on American security guarantees but that the draft was a work in progress, suggesting that what has been offered by the US falls short of provisions that could assuage Kyiv's fears. "The US does not want Ukraine in Nato. They say this openly... So I do not think they have difficulties discussing Nato with the Russians," Zelensky said. Zelensky also said Ukraine had to be "cautious", adding: "We do not know what other agreements the US may have with Russia. We will learn in time." Ukraine's president also acknowledged that US support for Kyiv may one day end, both in terms of the flow of weapons that the US is selling through other countries and in terms of intelligence sharing. Reflecting the fraught nature of the talks and his scepticism that Russia was negotiating in good faith, Zelensky told reporters: "No one knows what may happen the day after tomorrow... We do not know how these negotiations will end." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Polish authorities have arrested a prominent Russian academic from St Petersburg's world-famous Hermitage Museum who is sought by Ukraine for allegedly conducting illegal excavations and partially destroying the ancient city of Myrmekion in Crimea. The suspect, identified under Polish law as Aleksandr B, is the head of the Ancient Archaeology of the Northern Black Sea region at the museum, according to Ukrainian prosecutors. Ukrainian prosecutors accuse him of conducting illegal excavations at the site in Kerch between February 2014 and November 2025. "As a result of these excavations, from 2014-2019, he illegally partially destroyed the 'Ancient City of Myrmekion' archaeological complex," Prosecutor Piotr Skiba, a spokesman for the Warsaw District Prosecutor's Office told the BBC, citing information from Ukrainian prosecutors. Ukraine estimates the damage at UAH 201.6 million ($4.77 million). Russia invaded Crimea in February 2014 and annexed it. Russia's foreign ministry identified the man as Alexander Butyagin, an employee of the State Hermitage Museum and condemned his detention. "This is absolute legal tyranny. We will of course demand through diplomatic channels the right to protect the interests of our citizen," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. Myrmekion was an Ancient Greek colony founded by the Ionians in the first half of the Sixth Century BCE located in contemporary Crimea. Prosecutor Skiba said the man was detained in Poland on 4 December and was later questioned by prosecutors in Warsaw, "where he refused to provide explanations". The Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office issued an extradition request for Aleksandr B in November, Skiba said. According to the request: "He searched for movable objects on cultural heritage sites without the appropriate permit to conduct excavations at the 'Ancient City of Myrmekion' archaeological complex in Kerch….and conducted illegal excavations at this cultural heritage site from the beginning of the temporary occupation of the territory of Crimea". Russia's foreign ministry said Butyagin had been invited to deliver lectures on Pompeii in Warsaw and several other European cities. Warsaw District Court has agreed to remand Aleksandr B in custody at the Warsaw-Białołęka detention centre for 40 days until 13 January whilst the extradition process goes ahead. The Russian embassy in Warsaw has been informed of his arrest and pre-trial detention and are providing him with consular assistance, Prosecutor Skiba said. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
European leaders have said "intensive work" will continue in the coming days on a US-led plan to end the Russia-Ukraine war, after a joint phone call with President Donald Trump. UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz said they "agreed that this was a critical moment - for Ukraine, its people and for shared security across the Euro-Atlantic region". Trump later said "we discussed Ukraine in pretty strong words", admitting that there were "some little disputes about people". The joint call comes the day after Trump called European leaders "weak", suggesting the US could scale back support for Ukraine. In the wide-ranging Politico interview published on Tuesday, Trump also claimed Ukraine was "using war" to avoid holding elections, prompting President Volodymyr Zelensky to reply he was "ready" for them. Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, and Moscow currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory. The three European leaders issued identical statements shortly after their call with Trump on Wednesday. They read: "The leaders discussed the latest on the ongoing US-led peace talks, welcoming their efforts to achieve a just and lasting peace for Ukraine, and to see an end to the killing. "Intensive work on the peace plan is continuing and will continue in the coming days." The call lasted for about 45 minutes, and was initiated by the Americans last night. Sources characterise progress as "inching towards a deal" - but emphasise the complexity of arriving at one. A key sticking point remains Ukrainian territory and whether it is viable or reasonable to expect Kyiv to effectively give up land regarded as its own. The longstanding formulation of the British government is that decisions about Ukraine have to be made by Ukraine. This is an argument European governments are making to Washington, while publicly and privately praising Trump's commitment to bringing an end to the war. National Security Advisers from around Europe, including the UK's Jonathan Powell, are meeting regularly with Ukrainian officials. Summaries of those conversations and others are then shared by allies with Washington. It is expected that were a point to be reached where a potential deal was arrived at, America would then lead a conversation with Moscow. At a White House briefing later on Wednesday, Trump admitted that "strong words" were used during the phone call. He said he was yet to decide on whether to agree with European proposals to hold more meetings this weekend involving Washington and Kyiv. "We don't want to be wasting time," the US president said. He also called on Zelensky to be "realistic", saying that Ukrainians "want a settlement... they wanna see it [the war] end". Earlier on Wednesday, Zelensky wrote on social media that a 20-point document on how to end the war would be handed over to the US in "the near future" after "our joint work with President Trump's team and partners in Europe". The Ukrainian leader provided no further details. The original US draft peace plan - widely leaked to media last month - had 28 points, and was seen as favouring Russia. Ukraine has since held separate talks with US and European negotiators, seeking to change some key clauses such as territorial issues and security guarantees. Zelensky is under increasing pressure from Trump to agree to a peace deal to end the war, with the US president urging Kyiv to "play ball" by ceding territory to Moscow. Zelensky has repeatedly refused to do so, seeking instead an immediate ceasefire on the vast front line and iron-clad security guarantees for Kyiv in any future settlement. The Ukrainian leader is on a diplomatic tour of Europe following intensive talks between US and Ukrainian negotiators over the weekend which failed to produce a deal to which Kyiv could agree. Zelensky has been pressing his European allies to help deter the US from backing an agreement that could leave Ukraine exposed to future attacks by Russia. Meanwhile, the Kremlin said Trump's "very important" statements on Ukraine, including saying Moscow would win the war and that Kyiv would need to hand over land, align with Russia's view. "In many ways, on the subject of Nato membership, on the subject of territories, on the subjects of how Ukraine is losing land, it is in tune with our understanding," Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. Last week, Putin repeated his warning that Ukrainian troops must completely withdraw from Ukraine's eastern Donbas region or Russia will seize it, rejecting any compromise over how to end the war. In recent weeks Russian troops have continued their slow advance in south-eastern Ukraine - despite reported heavy combat casualties. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine is "ready for elections", President Volodymyr Zelensky has said, after US President Donald Trump repeated claims Kyiv was "using war" to avoid holding them. Zelensky's five-year term as president was due to end in May 2024, but elections have been suspended in Ukraine since martial law was declared after Russia's full-scale invasion in February 2022. Speaking to reporters following Trump's comments in a wide-raging Politico interview, Zelensky said he would ask for proposals to be drawn up which could change the law. Elections could be held in the next 60 to 90 days if security for the vote was guaranteed with the help of the US and other allies, he said. "I'm asking now, and I'm stating this openly, for the US to help me, perhaps together with our European colleagues, to ensure security for the elections," he told reporters. "The issue of elections in Ukraine, I believe, depends first and foremost on our people, and this is a question for the people of Ukraine, not the people of other countries. With all due respect to our partners," Zelensky said. "I've heard hints that we're clinging to power, or that I personally am clinging to the presidency" and "that's why the war isn't ending", which he called "frankly, a completely unreasonable narrative". Zelensky won the election in 2019 with more than 73% of the vote. Discussions around holding elections have made headlines since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Moscow has consistently claimed Zelensky is an illegitimate leader and demanded new elections as a condition of a ceasefire deal – a talking point which has been repeated by Trump. "They talk about a democracy, but it gets to a point where it's not a democracy anymore," the US president told Politico. There are significant practical obstacles to a wartime election. Soldiers serving on the front lines could be either unable to vote or require leave to do so. According to the UN, there are about 5.7 million Ukrainians living abroad because of the conflict. And any ballot would require complex, additional security measures. Such a vote would only be fair if all Ukrainians could participate, including soldiers fighting on the front line, a Ukrainian opposition MP told the BBC. Lesia Vasylenko of Golos also told the BBC World Service's Newsday programme that "elections are never possible in wartime", alluding to the suspension of elections in the UK during World War Two. Oleksiy Goncharenko, an opposition MP from the European Solidarity party, said: "I am completely against the idea, I can't even understand why Zelensky would say it." "It is completely impossible," he said, adding that elections involve an entire process of debates and campaigns. "Maybe Zelensky sees it as an opportunity to hold quasi-elections that will be favourable to him, while he controls the media and his opponents are likely not ready." There is little domestic political pressure on Zelensky to call elections while the conflict is ongoing, said Oleksandr Merezhko, the chairman of the foreign policy committee in Ukraine's parliament. There was "strong consensus" among politicians and civil organisations that elections would not be held under martial law, the MP from the Servant of the People - Zelensky's party - told the BBC. "Even the opposition, which is against Zelensky and would like to see him removed are against elections, because they understand the danger of attempting to hold elections during the war," he said. The idea was "exactly what Putin would want", Merezhko added. "An election campaign would be divisive. Having failed to destroy us from outside, Putin wants to destroy us from within, using elections as another tool to do so." There is no widespread public support in Ukraine for elections, Anton Grushetsky, director of the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology, told the BBC. According to data gathered over the past week, he said, only about 10% of the population supports the idea of going to the polls before a ceasefire or peace agreement. A poll by the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology (KIIS) in September found about 63% of people opposed holding elections after a ceasefire with security guarantees and were of the opinion they could only be held after a complete settlement. Zelensky remains Ukraine's most popular politician, with 22.3% of those polled in October saying they would vote for him if elections were held, according to Socis. He is closely followed by Gen Valerii Zaluzhnyi, the ambassador to the UK, with 21.3%, who has not indicated whether he would run in an election. Yulia Tovkach, who owns a shoe business in Bucha near Kyiv, said she thought it was vital for Ukraine to end martial law before any election. "If we don't, we will be accused of not having a legitimate, proper election," she said. "And to end martial law, we need a truce with security guarantees." Yana Kolomiets, a casting director based in the southern city of Odesa, said she thought the idea of holding an election was "foolish", even if she was dissatisfied with Zelensky's leadership. "It would complicate things a lot and would not be in Ukraine's favour," she said. Hanna Shelest, a foreign policy analyst with the think tank Ukrainian Prism, told the BBC that "even a year ago, Zelensky said that he was ready for elections as soon as the conditions allow". The question was, however, how to create the conditions Zelensky outlined, Shelest told the Newsroom programme on the BBC World Service, given soldiers and refugees who would be voting, unsecured areas in the country and ongoing strikes. "You cannot guarantee the security of the polling stations," she said. Zelensky is also facing increasing pressure from Trump to agree to a peace deal to end the war, with the US leader urging Zelensky to "play ball" by ceding territory to Moscow. On Wednesday, Zelensky wrote on social media that a 20-point document on how to end the war would be handed over to the US in "the near future" after "our joint work with President Trump's team and partners in Europe". The Ukrainian leader provided no further details. The original US draft peace plan - widely leaked to media last month - had 28 points, and was seen as favouring Russia. Ukraine has since held separate talks with US and European negotiators, seeking to change some key clauses such as territorial issues and security guarantees. Later on Wednesday, Trump held phone talks with UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz to discuss a potential ceasefire in Ukraine. After the call, the three European leaders jointly said in statements issued in London, Paris and Berlin that "intensive work on the peace plan is continuing and will continue in the coming days. The statements said that the participants "agreed that this was a critical moment - for Ukraine, its people and for shared security across the Euro-Atlantic region". Meanwhile, the Kremlin said Trump's "very important" statements on Ukraine, including saying Moscow would win the war and that Kyiv would need to hand over land, align with Russia's view. "In many ways, on the subject of Nato membership, on the subject of territories, on the subjects of how Ukraine is losing land, it is in tune with our understanding," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. The Ukrainian president is on a diplomatic tour of Europe following intensive talks between US and Ukrainian negotiators over the weekend which failed to produce a deal to which Kyiv could agree. He has pressed European and Nato leaders to help deter the US from backing a deal that Kyiv fears would leave it exposed to future attacks and has ruled out surrendering land. Additional reporting by Vitaliy Shevchenko A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Three ambulances filled with Christmas gifts and medical supplies have arrived in Ukraine, having journeyed from Warwickshire. The ambulances were sent by the Belveder community organisation, which is based in Leamington Spa, who have now delivered 61 ambulances filled with aid to Ukraine. Belveder said the gifts and supplies would be distributed by the Sisters of St. Joseph, reaching children in orphanages and elderly residents in care homes. Volunteer Harnek Singh said: "It was a great adventure, but above all, it felt meaningful to have done something to make a real difference. It was humbling to meet the soldiers who travelled from the front line to meet us." The vehicles were funded by LKQ Euro Car Parts, Gursewak Trust, and the Warwickshire Freemasons, while medical supplies were provided by the Ukraine Medical Charity. The Leamington History Group, Kenilworth Lions and Lifestyle Gift Cards donated hundreds of chocolate gifts, Boden gave five boxes of new children's clothing, and the Rotary Club of Warwick also donated £500. A spokesperson for Belveder said: "A heartfelt thank you goes to our volunteer drivers, who dedicated their time and effort to transport the ambulances. "In Leżajsk, eastern Poland, the drivers met with officers of the Ukrainian army, who received the vehicles and promptly set off for eastern Ukraine, where they will be used to save lives as quickly as possible." Belveder said the deliveries would not have been possible without the "incredible generosity and commitment of our partners, donors, and volunteers". The organisation's projects include emergency aid deliveries, community food programmes, and cultural initiatives that strengthen solidarity and understanding. Follow BBC Coventry & Warwickshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. Two people are arrested after the body of a man in his 50s was found in a road. Take a look at these delightful photos of the West Midlands we have been sent this week. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia's full-scale war on Ukraine will soon enter its fifth year. Mysterious incidents of so-called "hybrid warfare" are mounting in Europe, increasing tensions. And in the UK, military chiefs have warned we must prepare for war if we want to avoid it. But if the unthinkable happened, and war with Russia broke out, could the UK fight for more than just a few weeks? Listen to Frank reading this article "We are not planning to go to war with Europe. But if Europe wants to, and starts, we are ready right now." So said Russian President Vladimir Putin on 2 December, accusing European countries of hindering US efforts to bring peace in Ukraine. To be clear, it is extremely unlikely that the UK would ever find itself in a war with Russia on its own, unsupported by Nato allies. But Putin's words were an uncomfortable reminder that a war between Russia and Nato countries, including the UK, was not as remote as people hoped. "Well that's odd. I've got no signal on my phone." "Me neither. I'm offline. What's going on?" That scenario, hypothetically, is just one way we could know that a war with Russia had begun, or was about to. (I should add that there can also be other, perfectly benign, reasons for a loss of signal.) That signal interruption could be followed by an inability to make bank payments for essentials like food and fuel. Food distribution would be disrupted, electricity supplies compromised. There are many ways of fighting a war, and not just the physically destructive wave of drones, bombs and missiles so tragically familiar to the citizens of Ukraine. Our modern, tech-driven society is highly dependent on the network of undersea cables and pipelines that connect the UK to the rest of the world, carrying data, financial transactions and energy. Covert activity by Russian spy vessels, such as the Yantar, is widely believed to have scoped out these cables for potential sabotage in a time of war, which is why the Royal Navy has recently invested in a fleet of underwater drones equipped with integrated sensors. In a war, these hidden, unseen actions, combined with an almost inevitable attempt to "blind" Western satellites in space, would seriously hamper the UK's ability to fight, as well as potentially wreaking havoc on civil society. At a recent conference in London entitled Fighting the Long War, organised by the Royal United Services Institute (Rusi), a Whitehall think tank, military and political figures came together to discuss whether the UK's current armed forces would be in a position to sustain a protracted conflict before they ran out of everything from troops, to ammunition to spare parts. "There remains little evidence that the UK has a plan to fight a war lasting more than a few weeks," argues Rusi's Hamish Mundell. "Medical capacity is limited. Reserve regeneration pipelines are slow… The British plan for mass casualty outcomes appears to be based on not taking casualties." With classic British understatement, he says: "This could be considered an optimistic planning assumption." He adds that to fight a long war you need proper back-up. "It demands a second and even third echelon; personnel, platforms and logistics chains that can absorb losses and continue the fight. Yet this depth is notably absent from current British force design." "There are shortfalls in ammunition, artillery, vehicles, air defence, and people, with limited to no ability to regenerate units or casualties," says Justin Crump, CEO of Sibylline, a private intelligence company. Two of the biggest military lessons to come out of the Ukraine war are firstly, that drones are now integral to modern warfare, at every level, and secondly, that "mass", or sheer volume of personnel and military hardware, matters. Russia's army is generally of a very low quality. Its soldiers are poorly equipped, poorly led and poorly fed. Their life expectancy in the deadly "drone zone" of eastern Ukraine is short. UK Defence Intelligence estimates that since the start of the full-scale invasion in February 2022 Russia's army has suffered more than 1.1 million casualties – that is killed, wounded, captured or missing. Even conservative estimates put the number of Russians killed at 150,000. Ukraine has also suffered catastrophic casualties but numbers are hard to ascertain. But Russia has been able to draw on such a massive pool of manpower that it has so far been able to replace its estimated 30,000 monthly battlefield casualties with fresh blood. Russia's economy has also been on a war footing for more than three years now: an economist has been placed in charge of the Defence Ministry, while its factories churn out ever more supplies of drones, missiles and artillery shells. According to a recent report by the Kiel Institute for the World Economy, Russia has been producing each month around 150 tanks, 550 infantry fighting vehicles, 120 Lancet drones and more than 50 artillery pieces. The UK, and most of its Western allies, are simply not anywhere near this point. Analysts say it would take years for Western Europe's factories to come close to matching Russia's mass-production of weapons. "The land war in Ukraine has shown beyond doubt that mass is absolutely vital for anybody that is going to face Russia on land," says Keir Giles, a Russia expert at Chatham House think tank. "And having deep reserves vastly greater in number than the standing regular armed forces has been shown to be essential." France and Germany have both recently moved to revive a system of voluntary military service for 18-year-olds. The UK's former Head of the Army, Gen Sir Patrick Sanders, suggested in 2024, the year he retired, that the UK should train what he called "a citizen army" to fight a land war in the future. The idea was shot down by No. 10. "I think it's a cultural thing within the UK," says Ed Arnold, senior research fellow at Rusi. "So if you look at the states that are now looking towards [military service] - like Sweden, Germany and France - they are states who culturally still have an institutional memory of when they had that system. "We haven't had national service since the 1960s and attempts to have that national conversation around it have pretty much backfired." "The reality is, our armed forces cannot survive on a diet of government spin, over-the-horizon spending commitments and hollow rhetoric," Sir Ben Wallace, who was Defence Secretary in the Conservative government from 2019 to 2023, told the BBC. Responding to this, a spokesperson for the current Labour Defence Secretary, John Healey, told me: "This characterisation is baseless. "We increased defence spending by £5bn this year alone, signed 1,000 major contracts since the election and increased MOD spending with British businesses by 6% above inflation in the last year." He points to a new defence agreement with Norway, a £300m new investment in the Royal Navy's laser weapon and a £9bn investment into armed forces housing, adding: "We're a government investing in the transformation of our forces, investing in our British service personnel... to create jobs and growth in Britain's communities." But this is not about party politics. It's about whether UK defence has been under-funded for so long that it has now reached the point where the country is dangerously vulnerable in several areas, notably air defence. There are also problems of timing and inefficiency. Defence contracts often take years to come to fruition. Billions of pounds have been spent on Ajax, an overdue armoured vehicle project still beset with problems. Meanwhile, Nato officers have been warning Russia could be in a position to launch an attack on a Nato country within three to five years. At the end of the Cold War (between Nato and the Soviet Union) in 1990, when I was a young infantry Captain in the Army Reserves, the UK was spending 4.1% of GDP on defence. The following year it deployed over 45,000 troops to help evict Iraq President Saddam Hussein's invading army from Kuwait in operation Desert Storm. Today, with multiple pressures on the economy, the government is striving to meet a target of 2.5% of GDP by 2027, while Russia spends close to 7%. On paper, the British Army numbers around 74,000 but Rusi's Ed Arnold points out that once you subtract medically non-deployable soldiers, defence attaches around the world and others not part of formed units, then its actual deployable strength is only 54,000. That is less than the average number of casualties Russia takes in two months in Ukraine. In the event of a war, says Justin Crump of Sibylline, on land the (British) Army would most likely be degraded – incapable of fighting effectively - within weeks, once committed, though he adds "much depends on the form of the conflict". Some commentators have suggested that the UK is already "at war" with Russia. They are referring to what is known as "hybrid" or "grey-zone" warfare, which includes events that are often deniable, such as cyber-attacks, disinformation and the alleged launching of drones close to airports and military bases in Nato countries. But worrying as these are, they pale compared to the crisis that would be triggered by a Russian military attack on a Nato country, especially if it involved seizing territory and people being killed. There are several potential flashpoints here, where Nato military chiefs fear that Putin, if he were allowed to achieve his aims in Ukraine, could eventually move on to seek new targets for aggression. One potential target is the Suwalki Gap, a 60-mile (100km) stretch of border between Poland and Lithuania, both Nato countries. This is all that separates Russian ally Belarus from the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad on the Baltic coast. Seizing that border and opening up a route along it would, in theory, give Moscow direct access to its strategic base on the Baltic. The Baltic states themselves are other potential flashpoints. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania were all once part of the Soviet Union and were ruled from Moscow. They all voted for independence and have since joined Nato, but all have Russian-speaking minorities and hence there is a risk that Mr Putin could be tempted to send his troops across the border "to protect them from persecution". The eastern Estonian town of Narva, for example, is an obvious potential target here, as the majority of its population speak Russian and it sits just across the river from the giant Russian fortress of Ivangorod. A UK battle group comprising some 900 British military personnel has been stationed in Estonia, about 80 miles west of Narva, since 2017. In the event of war, the plan goes, it would be hurriedly reinforced to brigade strength of around 3,000 or more. Another possible flashpoint is the Arctic archipelago of Svalbard, which is administered by Norway but where Moscow already has a toehold in the coal mining town of Barentsburg. The UK may well be Putin's enemy number one, having been one of Ukraine's staunchest allies, and having pushed for more powerful weapons to be delivered to help its defence. Hostile acts on UK soil that have been linked to President Putin include the murder with radioactive Polonium-210 of former KGB officer Alexander Litvinenko in London in 2006 - a public inquiry concluded that Putin "probably" approved his assassination - and the attempted murder of former Russian military intelligence officer turned MI6 agent Sergei Skripal in Salisbury in 2018, using the nerve agent, Novichok. Dawn Sturgess, a mother-of-three, later died after she sprayed the Novichok, disguised as perfume, on her wrists. Putin was "morally responsible" for her death, an inquiry concluded last week. Lord Anthony Hughes, the inquiry chair, said: "I have concluded that the operation to assassinate Sergei Skripal must have been authorised at the highest level, by President Putin." Russia, which has always denied involvement in the attacks and suggested more than 20 different possible explanations for Ms Sturgess's death, described the report's findings as "tasteless fairy tales". But the UK is also a core member of the Nato alliance. While questions are certainly raised in private over the reliability of the current US administration in the White House, it is hard to envisage the UK ever having to fight Russia on its own. "A pure UK-Russia conflict is not likely and can be disregarded, practically," says Mr Crump. "We would definitely fight with allies, although Russia would most likely only launch a conflict if it felt Nato would break." The wild card here is US President Donald Trump. While the chairman of Nato's Military Committee, Adm Cavo Dragone recently assured me that the US president was absolutely committed to defending the Nato alliance, others are not so sure. Would Trump, for example, go to war to defend the Estonian town of Narva? "There is no one-size-fits-all answer to what the United Kingdom is actually capable of," concludes Keir Giles of Chatham House, "because there are so many different situations under which it could be challenged by Russia." As a society, the UK – unlike Poland, Finland and the Baltic States – is unquestionably not ready for war. Even serious preparations for such an eventuality would be both expensive, unpopular and politically risky. But Mr Giles of Chatham House offers some sobering advice to the British public: "Recognise that the rights and freedoms and prosperity that they take for granted are in fact under threat and that freedom does not come for free." "And understand that lives will have to change. And this is not the fault of the current government or even its predecessors — it's their fault that it is so expensive, but the root cause of the problem is in Moscow." Top image credit: Ministry of Defence PA Wire Getty Images. (Lead image shows soldier in non-combat scenario) BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. You can now sign up for notifications that will alert you whenever an InDepth story is published - click here to find out how. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. The US president's new budget would cut non-defence spending by 10%, partly by slashing domestic programmes. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has criticised European leaders as "weak" and suggested the US could scale back support for Ukraine. In a wide-ranging interview with Politico, he said "decaying" European countries had failed to control migration or take decisive action to end Ukraine's war with Russia, accusing them of letting Kyiv fight "until they drop". European leaders have made attempts to carve out a role in the US-led efforts to end the war, which they fear will undercut the long-term interests of the continent in favour of a quick resolution. In response, the UK's Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper said all she saw in Europe was "strength", citing investment in defence as well as funding for Kyiv. She added two presidents were "working for peace" - referring to Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky - and "one president - President Putin - has so far simply sought to escalate the conflict with further drone and missile attacks". Trump continued to increase pressure on Zelensky to agree to a peace deal, and urged him to "play ball" by ceding territory to Moscow. Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Zelensky, writing on X later on Tuesday, said Ukraine and Europe were working actively on "all components of potential steps toward ending the war", that the Ukrainian and European elements of the plan were now more developed. He then told reporters he believed the plans would be submitted to the US on Wednesday. Trump's latest public criticism of Europe comes a day after European leaders came together in London to discuss their continued joint efforts to stop the fighting in Ukraine. Asked whether Europe could help end the war, Trump said: "They talk but they don't produce. And the war just keeps going on and on." US officials have held separate talks with Ukrainian and Russian officials in recent weeks in an attempt to broker an end to the war. So far, no agreement has been reached. Ukraine's president has pressed European and Nato leaders to help deter the US from backing a deal that Kyiv fears would leave it exposed to future attacks. On Sunday Trump suggested, without evidence, that Zelensky was the main obstacle to peace. He told reporters that Russia was "fine" with the peace plan outlined to both sides by the US, that contained major concessions for Ukraine and which allies feared would leave it vulnerable to a future invasion. In the Politico interview, he claimed Ukrainian negotiators "loved" the US-backed proposal and alleged Zelensky had not yet read it. Trump also repeated previous calls for Kyiv to hold elections and claimed it was "using war" as a reason not to do so. He said: "You know, they talk about a democracy, but it gets to a point where it's not a democracy anymore." Zelensky's five-year term as president was due to end in May 2024, but elections have been suspended in Ukraine since martial law was declared after Russia's invasion. Speaking to reporters after Trump's comments, Zelensky said he was "ready for the elections" and he would ask for proposals to be drawn up which could change the law. Elections could be held in the next 60 to 90 days if security is guaranteed with the help of the US and other allies, he told reporters. Also in the Politico interview, Trump claimed ideological divisions now threatened to fracture Washington's alliances with Europe. Asked whether leaders who he viewed as weak could still be allies, he replied: "It depends", adding: "I think they're weak, but I also think that they want to be so politically correct. I think they don't know what to do." The president's remarks came after his administration released its new 33-page National Security Strategy, which warned of Europe's potential "civilisational erasure" and questioned whether some nations could remain reliable allies. Russia welcomed that strategy - which did not cast Russia as a threat to the US - as "largely consistent" with Moscow's vision. Trump also warned on Tuesday many countries in Europe "will not be viable countries any longer" if they keep on the way they are going, adding: "What they're doing with immigration is a disaster." He singled out Hungary and Poland as doing a "very good job" on immigration, but said most European nations were "decaying". Responding on Tuesday to the strategy, German chancellor Friedrich Merz said some parts were plausible and some understandable, but other elements were unacceptable from a European point of view. He rejected the idea that the US needed to "save democracy" in Europe, saying Europeans could address such questions themselves. The strategy also followed similar rhetoric to Trump's speech to the UN earlier this year, where he had harsh criticism for western Europe and its approach to migration and clean energy. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine is preparing to present a revised peace plan to the White House, as it seeks to avoid making territorial concessions to Russia. Kyiv is set to propose alternatives after President Volodymyr Zelensky again ruled out surrendering land, saying he had "no right" to do so under Ukrainian or international law. He made the comments after meeting European and Nato leaders on Monday, part of a push to deter the US from backing a peace deal which includes major concessions for Ukraine, and which allies fear would leave it vulnerable to a future invasion. The Ukrainian president told a news conference his team could send a new proposal to the Americans as soon as Tuesday, AFP news agency reported. Zelensky's ongoing diplomatic tour of Europe follows intensive talks between US and Ukrainian negotiators over the weekend which failed to produce a deal to which Kyiv could agree. On Sunday, Trump indicated that he viewed Zelensky as the main obstacle to securing a peace deal, something he has made a key foreign policy goal and which the president claimed he would be able to achieve rapidly during the 2024 presidential election campaign. He told reporters that Russia was "fine" with the peace plan outlined to both sides by the US, but that he was a "little disappointed that Zelensky hasn't read it". Almost simultaneously, Zelensky said he was waiting to briefed by his chief negotiator Rustem Umerov following three days of discussions with his US counterparts in Miami. "Some issues can only be discussed in person," said Zelensky, ahead of a meeting in London attended by UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz. The summit was widely viewed as a show of support for Ukraine as it seeks to resist White House pressure. Trump called Europe's leaders "weak" in an interview with Politico published on Tuesday. On whether Europe could help end Russia's war with Ukraine, the US president said: "They talk, but they don't produce, and the war just keeps going on and on." No 10 said there had been an agreement that the US-led talks represented a "critical moment" to ramp up support for Ukraine, and repeated calls for a "just and lasting peace... which includes robust security guarantees". But it is not yet clear what form that would take. While the UK and France have proposed deploying international troops in Ukraine, several key defence players in Europe, including Germany and Italy, have expressed scepticism about that idea. It is also not clear to what extent the US would be willing to underpin any future defence arrangements for Ukraine. Following talks in London, Zelensky flew to Brussels to meet Nato chief Mark Rutte and EU chief Ursula von der Leyen, and will meet Prime Minister Georgia Meloni in Italy on Tuesday. On the subject of surrendering land, Zelensky said: "Russia is insisting that we give up territories, but we don't want to cede anything." He continued: "We have no legal right to do so, under Ukrainian law, our constitution and international law. And we don't have any moral right either." Zelensky has long maintained that any changes to Ukraine's borders would need to be authorised by a public referendum. On Tuesday, Russia's chief of general staff, Valery Gerasimov, said the country's forces were advancing along Ukraine's front line and were targeting Myrnohrad, close to the strategically important city of Pokrovsk. Russia claims to have captured Pokrovsk, which would nudge Putin closer to taking full control of Ukraine's Donbas, made up of the neighbouring regions of Donetsk and Luhansk. Ukraine has denied this, and a command centre showed the BBC live video of Ukrainian soldiers still fighting in the city during a recent visit. Zelensky told reporters that the initial 28-point plan proposed by the US - and rejected by Kyiv and European leaders as being too favourable to Russia - had been cut down to 20 points, according to Interfax-Ukraine news agency. He said no "pro-Ukrainian" points had been removed from the draft, though there had also been no "compromise" on the subject of territory. Zelensky singled out control of the eastern Donbas region and the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant as being among the "most sensitive" issues. The original leaked version of the US-backed plan proposed that Ukraine hand over total control of the Donbas to Russia, despite the fact that Kremlin forces have been unable to capture it in full after almost four years of war. Energy produced at Zaporizhzhia, the largest nuclear power plant in Europe, would be split between Russia and Ukraine, the draft plan said. Meanwhile, the city of Sumy in north-west Ukraine was left without power overnight after a Russian drone attack. The region's governor said more than a dozen drones had hit power infrastructure, the latest in Russia's nightly attacks. Authorities are checking for casualties. Elsewhere, the death toll from one of Russia's deadliest attacks in the Ternopil region continued to rise. Ternopil's police chief said two more bodies had been found following a Russian missile strike on the west Ukrainian city last month, taking the total fatalities to 38, including eight children. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Pokrovsk has not fallen yet. That is despite President Vladimir Putin's recent claim that Russian forces have taken the city. There is no doubt Ukraine has been losing ground in this key city in the east. For Russia, Pokrovsk is another stepping stone towards its goal of taking control of all of the Donbas. But Ukraine needs to prove it is still capable of resisting. At a Ukrainian command post, well behind the front line, orders are relayed by radio in rapid and quick succession. Soldiers watch dozens of live drone feeds. They are coordinating strikes on Russian positions inside the city. The commander of the Skala Assault Regiment, Yuri, is keen to prove to us that Ukraine still controls the north of the city - to show that the Kremlin's claim that it has taken Pokrovsk is a lie. Over the radio, they ask two of their soldiers to break cover from a building to display a Ukrainian flag. They move quickly to avoid being spotted. The drone feed shows the moment they briefly wave their yellow and blue flag, before quickly returning to cover. Yuri tells me: "You've now seen it with your own eyes." "I think the whole world should know we will not just give up our territory," he says. "If we do not show this, everyone will lose faith and stop helping Ukraine." The battle for Pokrovsk, once a key logistics hub for Ukraine's military, has been grinding on for nearly 18 months. The city is already in ruins. The question now is how much longer can Ukraine hold on. Those tracking the Russian advances suggest Ukrainian forces barely have a hold on the city. Russian forces have slowly been advancing from the south. Ukraine is losing ground, but says it still holds the north, up to the railway line that bisects the city. Sasha, a 25-year-old battalion commander, shows me a map. On top he has placed green plastic soldiers to represent where Ukrainian troops are still defending. Brown plastic soldiers show where their enemy has advanced. The Russians have been using small teams of two to four soldiers to sneak past Ukrainian positions, sometimes dressed as civilians. "It's a good tactic to get behind enemy lines, to gain a foothold," Sasha says. But he adds: "The enemy who gets into our rear is quickly identified – it takes 15 to 20 minutes between detection and destruction." Russia has suffered heavy casualties, but still has more troops. A Ukrainian soldier with the call sign Rabbit shows me passports and documents retrieved from their dead. I asked him if he thinks they have killed a lot of Russians. Rabbit described the situation as "hard, but under control". He shows me a Russian machine gun captured by one of his comrades who spent 70 straight days fighting in Pokrovsk. "All he wanted was cigarettes and ammunition," says Rabbit. The fighting is clearly taking its toll on Ukrainian forces, but there is no sign of them giving up. Nor does Rabbit agree with any suggestion that Ukraine should give up more land for peace. He says too much blood has already been spilt: "We are part of this land. If we give it up Russia will want more." Another soldier - call sign "Ghost" - fighting in another unit in Pokrovsk describes the situation as "tense, but not critical". He dismisses reports of its capture as "Russian propaganda", saying reports that "Pokrovsk is surrounded is fake information", but adds that "everyone is exhausted – both Russia and Ukraine". For Ukraine, holding ground is also proving costly. The Skala Regiment shares recent videos taken by their troops on the front line - often having to take cover in buildings from Russian drones. The buzz of an approaching drone is often accompanied by heavy automatic fire as they try to bring it down. "Khotabych", who recently spent a month fighting in the city, says it is scary when the drones spot you: "There are lots and they fly round the clock." The Russians have more drones with thermal imaging cameras, which can see at night. Khotabych said he and his men always hope for "good weather" – by which he means fog, rain and grey sky. In other words, anything that makes it more difficult to fly. In Pokrovsk, Ukrainian soldiers are focused on the fighting, not peace talks. Most say they want to avoid "political questions". But a volunteer from Latvia – the Skala Regiment's deputy commander – is more willing to give an opinion. He says Latvians "understand that if Ukraine loses the war, it's going to be our country next". His call sign is "Godfather" and he has a tough message for Europe and the US. He describes President Donald Trump as a "charismatic and strong leader", but he says if Trump's peace envoy Steve Witkoff "stands with Putin, then it makes America and Trump look weak". As for Europe, he says "there's a lot of talking, a lot of bureaucracy and not enough doing". The message from the troops we talked to is that the situation in Pokrovsk is not so bleak. But Ukraine needs proof of its resolve at this critical time. Additional reporting by Mariana Matveichuk and Kyla Herrmannsen. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
European leaders have said "now is a critical moment" to ramp up support for Ukraine and put pressure on Russia to bring an end to the war. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky met UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer, French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz in London on Monday to discuss the latest version of a peace plan, drafted between Ukrainian and US officials last week. The European leaders said more work was needed to obtain security guarantees for Ukraine, as the US puts pressure on Kyiv to agree a swift deal with Russia. Zelensky, who travelled on to Brussels to meet Nato officials, said that Ukraine would share a revised plan with the US on Tuesday. Last week, Ukrainian officials spent three days with the US negotiating team in Florida pushing for changes to a US-backed peace proposal which has been widely considered favourable to Russia. Answering questions from journalists after Monday's meeting in London, Zelensky said that the "most certainly anti-Ukrainian points have been removed" from the initial deal proposed in November. But the Ukrainian president acknowledged that there were some outstanding concerns about ceding territory and a compromise had "not yet been found there". The US has proposed that Ukraine pulls its forces entirely out of eastern regions which Russia has attempted to take by force, but has been unable to capture in full. In return, the US says Russia would withdraw elsewhere and there would be a cessation of fighting. But this is an unpalatable option for Zelensky, who refuses to reward Moscow for its aggression and who has repeatedly warned that Russia would use any foothold in the eastern regions to launch future assaults on Ukraine. "Americans are inclined, in principle, to finding a compromise," Zelensky said on Monday. He added that the issue of security guarantees - which Ukraine wants to ensure Russia would be deterred from carrying out future attacks in the event of a peace deal - had yet to be resolved. A spokesperson for the UK prime minister's office said: "The leaders all agreed that now is a critical moment and that we must continue to ramp up support to Ukraine and economic pressure on Putin to bring an end to this barbaric war. "The leaders discussed the importance of the US-led peace talks for European security and supported the progress made," the statement said. Leaders also "underscored the need for a just and lasting peace in Ukraine, which includes robust security guarantees", it added. Ahead of the talks he hosted at Downing Street, Starmer said there needed to be "hard-edged security guarantees" in a peace deal for Ukraine. Merz stated he was "sceptical" about some of the details of the potential plan coming from the US side. "But we have to talk about it. That's why we are here," he added. Following the meeting, France said work would be "intensified" to provide security guarantees for Ukraine. There is nervousness in Kyiv and across Europe that the US could end its support of Ukraine over frustration with the slow progress of negotiations. "We can't manage without Americans, we can't manage without Europe and that is why we need to make some important decisions," Zelensky said in London. Although the White House has been pushing Kyiv and Moscow to swiftly agree to a multi-point plan to end the war, there has been little sign of a breakthrough. A five-hour meeting between US envoy Steve Witkoff and Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow last week failed to yield tangible results. Those talks were followed by three days of discussions between Zelensky's chief negotiator Rustem Umerov and his US counterparts in Miami, which resulted in vague but positive statements of "progress" from both sides. However, on Sunday Trump accused Zelensky of not having read the draft of the revised deal. "I'm a little disappointed that President Zelensky hasn't yet read the proposal," he said, while insisting Russia's Vladimir Putin was "fine with it". Almost simultaneously, Zelensky stated that he expected to be briefed on the negotiations by Umerov either in London or Brussels on Monday. "Some issues can only be discussed in person," he said. The talks in London were the latest attempt by Ukraine's European allies to carve out a role in the US-led efforts to end the war, which they fear will undercut the long-term interests of the continent in favour of a quick resolution. Despite significant economic pressure and sustained battlefield losses, the Kremlin has shown little sign that it is willing to compromise on its key demands, including ruling out any future path to Ukraine joining the Nato military alliance. Last week, Putin also restated his willingness to continue fighting until his forces take full control of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, 85% of which is currently occupied by the Russian army. As talks in the US and Europe continue, so does the war. Between Sunday and Monday a total of 10 people were killed and 47 were injured as Russian forces attacked nine regions using drones, glide bombs and missiles. Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine began in February 2022. Since then, thousands of civilians and soldiers have been killed or injured, with Ukraine's cities continuing to come under fire on an near-nightly basis. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky has met key European allies as he faces US pressure to reach a swift peace deal with Russia. In London, Zelensky held talks with Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, French President Emmanuel Macron and the German Chancellor Friedrich Merz. The meeting came amid US efforts to get Moscow and Kyiv to sign up - quickly - to a plan to end the war in Ukraine. For Kyiv, the crucial, thorny issues are the question of ceding territory to Russia as part of any peace deal and obtaining strong security guarantees to ensure that Moscow respects an eventual agreement. Ahead of the meeting in London, Starmer insisted - as he often has in the past - that Ukraine needed "hard-edged security guarantees". He has also repeatedly said that Kyiv must determine its own future, not have conditions imposed on it. The big names Starmer hosted in London discussed hugely significant issues - not only for Ukraine's future, but for the security of the continent as a whole. There's concern that if Russia is "rewarded" by being given Ukrainian territory as part of a peace deal, it could feel emboldened to attack other European countries in the future. But will Monday's talks in London make any meaningful difference to peace negotiations? The visuals of Europe's arguably most influential nations standing shoulder-to-shoulder with Volodymyr Zelensky in Downing Street tell one story. But when it comes to Washington, European leaders are walking a tightrope. In its National Security Strategy published on Friday, the US pointed the finger of blame at Europeans over Ukraine, accusing them of having "unrealistic expectations" as to how the war might end. Although they have not publicly commented on the document, behind closed doors Europe's leaders fear Donald Trump is keen for a quick fix in Ukraine, so he can turn his attentions elsewhere. But a quick fix, they worry, will not mean a long-lasting peace - only a temporary pause in Russian aggression in Ukraine and possibly further afield in Europe. Recent incidents including unmanned drones causing chaos in civilian airports in Germany, Denmark, Belgium and elsewhere, an act of railway sabotage in Poland that could have cost lives and significant cyber-attacks across the continent have all been laid at Russia's door. They have brought the war in Ukraine closer to Europeans, however far they are from the front line. With that has come a sense that Russia would like to weaken their continent as a whole. But we do not hear those European concerns broadcast loudly in public. For the most part, leaders continue to praise Trump. On Monday, Starmer said the US president had progressed peace negotiations "the furthest we've got in the four years" in just a few weeks. He added that talks were complicated, but progress was being made. German Chancellor Friedrich Merz suggested that he was "sceptical about some of the details which we are seeing in the documents coming from the US side",  but added "we have to talk about it". The fact is, European leaders don't want to provoke the US president over differences on how to achieve peace. Donald Trump has flip-flopped dramatically in his attitudes towards Kyiv since he returned to the White House. He has a pretty tempestuous relationship with Volodymyr Zelensky, whereas he has often praised Vladimir Putin. Washington has already stopped direct aid to Ukraine - although it still provides much-needed intelligence to its military and allows European countries to purchase US weapons which are then sent on to Kyiv. European nations are not in a position to support Ukraine militarily without the US. After decades of under-investment in their militaries, they are not in a position to take on the security and defence of their own continent alone, either. The US is the biggest and most powerful member of Nato. Europe looks to Washington for intelligence, command and control capabilities, for air force capabilities - such as air-to-air refuelling - and much more. Despite a pledge to Donald Trump at a Nato summit a few months ago to vastly increase defence spending (and Trump is far from the first US president to ask for that), Europe cannot practically become militarily independent overnight. European governments are currently facing considerable budgetary constraints. In the UK, talk of struggling and failing public services is common. In France - which has long been in the throes of a huge budgetary crisis - next year's draft budget only sets €120m (£105m) in civilian and military aid for Ukraine. It is because of these limitations that - in public - the concerns about Washington and a peace plan for Ukraine are so carefully expressed by Europe's leaders. They don't want to risk being left completely alone by the power they still describe as their greatest ally. But the differences in the European and US approaches to Moscow are glaring. While Europeans – particularly in countries bordering Russia - view Moscow as a destabilising threat, in its National Security Strategy the Trump administration talked up the importance of building "strategic stability" with Russia, and questioned Europe's longer-term reliability as an ally. Europe's leaders are trying to avoid further alienating the US president, while fighting for Ukrainian sovereignty and future continental stability. It's a tortuous dance. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Talks on the war in Ukraine have taken place in London, with the leaders of the UK, France and Germany reaffirming their support for President Volodymyr Zelensky. US President Donald Trump has said he is "disappointed" that President Zelensky has not read his latest proposal to end the conflict. President Trump has, in the past, been critical of the amount of support European countries have given to Ukraine, comparing it unfavourably with his own country's contribution. BBC Verify has been taking a closer look at how much Europe and the US have been spending on Ukraine since Russia's full-scale invasion in February 2022. The US spent a total of $130.6bn (£98bn) between 24 January 2022 and 31 August 2025, according to the Kiel Institute, a Germany-based think tank that tracks international support for Ukraine. The US government has provided its own figure looking at all spending on Operation Atlantic Resolve - a response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It says $187bn has been "appropriated" - a figure that covers US military training in Europe and replenishment of US defence stocks. This total runs to 30 June 2025, making it less up to date than the Kiel Institute's estimate - though notably higher. In July, Trump announced a new plan under which NATO allies would pay for US weapons and transfer them to Ukraine. In February, when he was hosting France's President Macron, Trump claimed: "We've spent more than $300bn and Europe has spent about $100bn - that's a big difference" BBC Verify looked at the claim at the time and concluded Trump's numbers did not add up as the published numbers - from both Kiel and the US government - showed the US had spent a lot less than $300bn. This remains the case ten months on. It is true that the US is, by some margin, the largest single donor to Ukraine. But Europe combined has spent more money than the US, according to the Kiel Institute. Between January 2022 and the end of August 2025, Europe as a whole spent $201.7bn on Ukraine, compared to the US's $130.6bn over the same period, according to Kiel Institute calculations. The figure includes aid directly from the European Union (EU), but also from bilateral deals from European countries, both inside and outside the EU. It includes military, financial and humanitarian aid. Trump has previously claimed Europe would get its money back as it was "loaning" it to Ukraine. This prompted Macron - who was sat next to the US president in their Oval Office meeting in February - to intervene, saying both Europe and the US had given a mixture of grants and loans. President Macron is correct, according to Kiel figures specifically on financial aid. But the institute's figures also suggest President Trump has a point - the US has sent more grants, while the EU sent more loans. However, again, there are different figures out there. As of 19 November, the EU says its members have provided about $197bn so far, with loans making up 35% of the total. Like the US government, the EU has used a broader definition of what counts as aid to Ukraine. EU loans will have been on generous terms - so Ukraine will be repaying less interest than it would normally. In some cases, Ukraine isn't expected to pay anything, with repayments coming from revenues from frozen Russian assets. What we can say is that aid to Ukraine has been a mixture of loans and grants. The UK is one of the biggest individual state donors to Ukraine with $21.2bn in support, according to the Kiel Institute. The UK government has a higher figure - $29bn - which includes money spent and future commitments. The only countries to have spent more are the United States and Germany, according to Kiel data. However, the UK and Germany's contributions are much smaller than those of the US. Additional reporting: Thomas Spencer, Christine Jeavans, Daniel Wainwright and Tamara Kovacevic What do you want BBC Verify to investigate? The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A protective shield covering the Chernobyl nuclear reactor in Ukraine can no longer provide its main containment function following a drone strike earlier this year, according to a UN watchdog. International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors found that the massive structure, built over the site of the 1986 nuclear disaster, had lost its "primary safety functions including the confinement capability". In February, Ukraine accused Russia of targeting the power plant - a claim the Kremlin denied. The IAEA said repairs were "essential" to "prevent further degradation" of the nuclear shelter. However environmental expert Jim Smith told the BBC: "It is not something to panic about." Prof Smith from the University of Portsmouth in the UK, who has studied the aftermath of the Chernobyl disaster, said the biggest danger linked to the site was disturbing radioactive dust. But he said that "the risk is low" because contaminated dust is contained within a thick concrete "sarcophagus" which is covered by the protective shield. The 1986 explosion at Chernobyl blasted radioactive material into the air, triggering a public health emergency across Europe. In response, the former Soviet Union constructed the sarcophagus over the nuclear reactor. The sarcophagus only had a 30-year lifespan, prompting the need for the protective shell to prevent radioactive material leaking out over the next 100 years. The IAEA said a team had completed a safety assessment of the site last week after it was "severely damaged" by the drone strike. The attack caused a fire in the outer cladding of the steel structure. Inspectors said there was no permanent damage to shell's load-bearing structures or monitoring systems and some repairs had been carried out on the roof. But IAEA director general Rafael Grossi, said: "Timely and comprehensive restoration remains essential to prevent further degradation and ensure long-term nuclear safety." Since the beginning of December, the UN's nuclear watchdog has been assessing Ukraine's energy infrastructure as the country continues to defend itself against Russia. Overnight, Russia launched airstrikes on the city of Kremenchuk, a major industrial hub in the centre of Ukraine. As well as assessing Chernobyl, the IAEA has been inspecting electrical substations linked to nuclear safety and security. Mr Grossi said: "They are absolutely indispensable for providing the electricity all nuclear power plants need for reactor cooling and other safety systems. "They are also needed to distribute the electricity that they produce to households and industry." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russian air strikes on Ukraine have continued overnight, hours after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he had a "very constructive" phone call with Donald Trump's negotiating team following three days of talks in Florida. Early on Sunday the mayor of Kremenchuk, a major industrial hub in central Ukraine, said the city had been repeatedly struck in a "massive" attack. No deaths have been confirmed so far. Meanwhile, Russia said it had shot down 77 Ukrainian drones in several locations. Aerial assaults have persisted even as efforts to negotiate an end to the war have intensified, including detailed Ukraine-US talks in Miami aimed at drafting a peace settlement acceptable to both sides. Zelensky said on Saturday that he was "determined" to continue working with the US after speaking to Trump's envoy, Steve Witkoff, and the US president's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, at the conclusion of those negotiations. He added that they had discussed how to ensure Russia stuck to any potential deal to end the war. Hours later, Kremenchuk Mayor Vitaliy Maletsk said his city had sustained a "massive combined strike" on its infrastructure. The extent of the damage was unclear as of Sunday morning but the mayor said water, electricity and heating had been cut off for some. The city, which is roughly halfway between Kyiv and the frontline in the east, has been repeatedly targeted since Russia launched its full-scale invasion in February 2022. The White House has pushed Kyiv and Moscow to agree to a multi-point plan to end the war but there has been little sign of a breakthrough, despite both sides engaging with the US-led process. "Ukraine is determined to keep working in good faith with the American side to genuinely achieve peace," Zelensky said on X. "We covered many aspects and went through key points that could ensure an end to the bloodshed and eliminate the threat of a new Russian full scale invasion." The Russian strikes in the early hours of Sunday followed a wider attack 24 hours earlier, which drew condemnation from Kyiv's European allies. In a social media post, French President Emmanuel Macron said he had spoken to Zelensky and offered his "full solidarity". "France is determined to work with all partners to secure de-escalation measures and to impose a ceasefire," Macron added. Macron, Zelensky, UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz are due to hold in-person talks in London on Monday. European leaders have pushed back against early versions of the US-led peace plan and have sought to win support from the White House for their own proposals, such as comprehensive security guarantees for a post-war Ukraine, including the possibility of a peacekeeping force. Sir Keir has led the push for a so-called "coalition of the willing", a loose collection of Ukrainian allies who are committed to continuing to underwrite Kyiv's defence in the event of a ceasefire to deter a second invasion. He has called that proposal "vital" for Ukraine's long-term security. Russian President Vladimir Putin has rejected the idea of such a force, saying any troops deployed to Ukraine would be "legitimate targets". Also on Saturday, US and Ukrainian negotiators urged Russia to show a "serious commitment to long-term peace". The joint statement was issued days after Witkoff returned from talks with Putin at the Kremlin which failed to produce a breakthrough. Witkoff and Rustem Umerov, newly installed as Zelensky's most senior negotiator, said they had "agreed on the framework of security arrangements" and "discussed necessary deterrence capabilities to sustain a lasting peace". Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia has launched a major aerial bombardment against Ukrainian infrastructure targets as talks between the US and Ukraine in Florida are set to enter a third day. Overnight Russia launched 653 drones and 51 missiles, most of which were downed, authorities said. One strike hit a railway hub at the town of Fastiv southwest of Kyiv, destroying the main station building and damaging rolling stock. Russia says it targeted military-industrial sites, and energy and port infrastructure. Condemning the new attacks, French President Emmanuel Macron announced he would go to London on Monday for a meeting with Ukrainian, British and German leaders aimed at putting pressure on Moscow. "We must continue to put pressure on Russia to force it towards peace," Macron posted on X. He said he would meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz in London to take stock of the ongoing negotiations being mediated by the US. Earlier US and Ukrainian negotiators urged Russia to show a "serious commitment to long-term peace" after talks in Moscow failed to produce a breakthrough. Moscow has intensified attacks on Ukraine's energy sector and infrastructure in recent weeks. On Saturday Ukraine's energy ministry said Russian attacks had hit energy facilities in eight regions, causing blackouts. Zelensky said the attack on the rail hub had been "meaningless from a military point of view, and the Russians could not have been unaware of this". Meanwhile the UN's nuclear watchdog said the Russian-controlled Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant had temporarily lost all external power overnight - the 11th time this has happened since Russia's full-scale invasion of its neighbour. While it is not currently producing electricity, it needs power to keep the nuclear material cool and avoid a meltdown. In Florida, a statement posted by US special envoy Steve Witkoff said two days of talks with Rustem Umerov, secretary of Ukraine's national security council, had been "constructive". Witkoff and Umerov "agreed on the framework of security arrangements" that could such an agreement and "discussed necessary deterrence capabilities to sustain a lasting peace", their statement said without giving details. The prospect of ending the war depended on Russia's readiness to take "steps towards de-escalation and cessation of killing", the statement added. The negotiations, which are also attended by US President Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, will continue for a third day on Saturday. The Florida talks saw Ukraine's team briefed on a recent meeting between Witkoff, Trump's most senior overseas envoy, and Russian President Vladimir Putin. Witkoff spent almost five hours with Putin in Moscow on Tuesday, after which the Kremlin said "no compromise" had been reached on a draft US peace plan. The Kremlin said Putin was ready to continue meeting the Americans "as many times as needed", but Ukraine and its allies in Europe have called into question the Russian leader's commitment to ending the war. On Friday, Zelensky said he wanted to "obtain full information about what was said in Moscow and what other pretexts Putin has come up with to drag out the war". Kyiv pushed for revisions to the initial US peace plan, which was widely seen as favourable to Moscow when an initial version leaked to the media. An updated version has not been shared publicly. Major points of contention remain between the two sides, including security guarantees for Ukraine post-war and territorial concessions. Russia currently controls roughly one-fifth of Ukraine's territory, including swathes of the Donbas area in the east – made up of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. In an interview with India Today on Friday, Putin warned Ukrainian troops to withdraw fully from the region this week, saying Russia would otherwise "liberate these [Donbas] territories by force". Kyiv and its European allies believe the most effective way to deter Russia from attacking again in the future would be to grant Ukraine membership of Nato, or to provide comprehensive security guarantees. Russia is staunchly opposed, while Trump too has repeatedly signalled he has no intention of letting Ukraine join the military alliance. The prospect of Ukraine joining Nato was a "key question" that was tackled in Moscow, the Kremlin said on Wednesday. Trump said those talks were "reasonably good", but it was too soon to say what would happen as "it does take two to tango". The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. Sir Keir Starmer says it is "deeply concerning" the rapper is set to headline a festival after recent antisemitic comments. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Vladimir Putin has warned again that Ukrainian troops must withdraw from Ukraine's eastern Donbas region or Russia will seize it, rejecting any compromise over how to end the war in Ukraine. "Either we liberate these territories by force, or Ukrainian troops will leave these territories," he told India Today. Moscow controls some 85% of Donbas. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has ruled out ceding territory. Putin's comments come after Donald Trump said his negotiators discussing a US peace plan believed Russia's leader "would like to end the war" after Tuesday's talks in Moscow. Trump's envoy Steve Witkoff, who was in Moscow, was due to meet Ukraine's team in Florida. Trump said Tuesday's talks in the Kremlin were "reasonably good", adding it was too soon to say what would happen as "it does take two to tango". The Kremlin said on Friday that Moscow was awaiting a response from Washington following the meeting in Russia. "We are now waiting for the reaction of our American colleagues to the discussion we had on Tuesday," Kremlin aide Yuri Ushakov was quoted as saying by RIA. He added there were no plans for a call between Putin and Trump, and no date had been set for a new meeting with Witkoff. The original iteration of the US peace plan proposed to hand over areas of the Donbas still under Ukrainian control to the de facto control of Putin - but the Witkoff team presented a modified version in Moscow. In his India Today interview ahead of a state visit to Delhi, Putin said he had not seen the new version before his talks with Witkoff and Jared Kushner, Trump's son-in-law. "That's why we had to go over every point, that's why it took so long," the Kremlin leader said. He also said Moscow disagreed with parts of the US plan. "At times we said that yes, we can discuss this, but to that we can't agree," Putin said. He did not name the sticking points. At least two significant points of contention remain - the fate of Ukrainian territory seized by Russian forces and security guarantees for Ukraine. Putin's senior foreign policy adviser and key negotiator Yuri Ushakov earlier said straight after the talks that they produced "no compromise" on ending the war. Ushakov also implied that the Russian negotiating position had been strengthened thanks to what Moscow said were its recent successes on the battlefield. Ukraine has repeatedly accused Russia of stalling any ceasefire agreements, saying Moscow is seeking to seize more Ukrainian territory. Commenting on the Kremlin talks, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andrii Sybhia said  Putin was "wasting the world's time". Ukraine has long insisted on firm security guarantees for Ukraine in any deal. On Wednesday, Zelensky said "the world clearly feels that there is a real opportunity to end the war" - but negotiations must be "backed by pressure on Russia", which Kyiv and its European allies accuse of deliberately stalling any ceasefire agreements. The Ukrainian president said last week his top negotiators had managed to make some key changes in the original US peace plan - seen as strongly favouring Moscow - during talks with an American delegation in Geneva on 23 November. In a joint statement, US and Ukrainian negotiators said at the time that they had drawn up an "updated and refined peace framework" - but provided no further details. Top negotiators from Europe - who had voiced concern over the original US plan - were also in the Swiss city last week, meeting separately with the Ukrainian and the US teams. In a separate development on Thursday, Germany's Der Spiegel news website said it had obtained a confidential transcript of a conference call in which European leaders expressed concern over the US negotiations. "There is a possibility that the US will betray Ukraine on the issue of territory without clarity on security guarantees," French President Emmanuel Macron reportedly said, according to an English transcript of Monday's conference call. Meanwhile, German Chancellor Friedrich Merz was quoted as warning that Zelensky had to be "extremely careful in the coming days". "They are playing games, both with you and with us," Merz reportedly said. Finnish President Alexander Stubb was also quoted as saying: "We mustn't leave Ukraine and Volodymyr alone with these guys." The BBC has not seen the reported transcript. In response to a Der Spiegel inquiry, France's Élysée Palace stated that "the president did not express himself in those terms". The presidential office declined to provide details on how Macron expressed himself, citing confidentiality. Stubb declined to comment to Der Spiegel, and Merz has not commented on the issue. In a statement to the BBC, the White House said: "Secretary [Marco] Rubio, Special Envoy Witkoff, Mr Kushner, and the President's entire national security team are working tirelessly to stop the killing between Russia and Ukraine." "They have held productive meetings to gather feedback from both sides on a plan that can foster a durable, enforceable peace," the statement read. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, and Moscow currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory. In recent weeks, Russian troops have been slowly advancing in south-east Ukraine, despite reported heavy combat casualties. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Senior members of the Irish government have been briefed on drone presence in Irish skies on the night Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky arrived in Ireland, BBC News NI understands. Zelensky flew into Dublin late on Monday night for a one-day official visit with his wife, First Lady Olena Zelenksa. The Irish Defence Forces said it had no comment on "the specifics of any alleged incidents". "Defence Forces support to the security operation, led by An Garda Síochána was successfully deployed in multiple means ultimately leading to a safe and successful visit by the President Zelensky to Ireland," said a spokesperson. In response to questions from journalists including the BBC, Ukraine's presidential office said "the host country is responsible for security". "According to their information, there were indeed such drones, but this did not affect the visit and did not require any changes to it," said its spokesperson. It is understood the gardaí (Irish police) are not carrying out an investigation. "In general and without commenting on any particular incident, any such incident occurring on Irish waters is a matter for the Defence Forces," said a garda spokesperson. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. New laws ban scramblers from all public spaces in the Republic of Ireland. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US special envoy Steve Witkoff will meet the head of Ukraine's national security council, Rustem Umerov, for talks in Miami on Thursday, the White House has confirmed. Witkoff spent almost five hours with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow on Tuesday in negotiations which the Kremlin said produced "no compromise" on ending the war in Ukraine. US President Donald Trump said the talks were "reasonably good", but it was too soon to say what would happen as "it does take two to tango." Putin later said reaching a consensus would not be an "easy task", reportedly highlighting Moscow's repeated demand that Ukrainian troops withdraw from the Donbas region - an area occupied by Russian forces. On Thursday, Russian state media reported Putin as saying: "It all comes down to this. Either we liberate these territories by force of arms or Ukrainian troops will leave these territories and stop fighting there." State media said Putin's comments were made during an interview with news outlet India Today, which came ahead of the Russian president's two-day visit to the country. Tuesday's talks in Moscow were also attended by Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner. When asked by a reporter on Wednesday if Witkoff and Kushner believed Putin wanted an end to the war, Trump said Putin "would like to end the war. That was their impression." But Ukrainian Foreign Minister Andrii Sybhia accused Putin of "wasting the world's time", while Ukraine's ambassador to the US said they do not "need to wait for promises from Russia". There was "not too much progress" at this stage of the talks, ambassador Olga Stefanishyna said, but that they were ongoing. "It is clear on both sides - in Ukraine and the United States - that Ukraine is committed to the result. Ukraine has invested a lot in the commitment to have a just and lasting peace in our country," she explained. Earlier on Wednesday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said "the world clearly feels that there is a real opportunity to end the war", but negotiations must be "backed by pressure on Russia". The US-Russia talks at the Kremlin followed days of US meetings with Ukrainian and European leaders, after concerns had been expressed that the draft of a peace deal was too slanted towards Russia's demands. "Some of the US proposals look more or less acceptable, though they need to be discussed further", Putin's foreign policy aide Yuri Ushakov said, while adding that others had been openly criticised by Russia's leader. Although Ushakov did not elaborate further, at least two major points of contention remain between Moscow and Kyiv - the fate of Ukrainian territory seized by Russian forces and security guarantees for Ukraine. Kyiv and its European partners believe that, even in the event of a peace deal, the most effective way to deter Russia from attacking again in the future would be to grant Ukraine membership of Nato. Russia is vehemently opposed to such a proposal, and Trump too has repeatedly signalled he has no intention of letting Kyiv into the alliance. The prospect of Ukraine joining Nato was a "key question" that was tackled in Moscow, the Kremlin said on Wednesday. Ushakov, a senior foreign policy adviser to Putin, implied that the Russian negotiating position had been strengthened thanks to recent successes on the battlefield. Russian soldiers had "helped make the assessments of our foreign partners regarding the paths to a peace settlement more appropriate," he said. Ahead of the US visit to the Kremlin, Putin was filmed in army fatigues at a Russian command post, being briefed by commanders claiming the conquest of the key strategic city of Pokrovsk, in eastern Ukraine, as well as other nearby settlements. Fighting in Pokrovsk is continuing and Russian forces do not control the whole city, but Russian officials clearly believe their message of military gains has been heard by the US. Russian forces have made some incremental advances in the east and appear to have stepped up their campaign in recent weeks. They seized about 701 sq km (270 sq miles) of Ukrainian territory in November, according to AFP analysis of data from the US-based Institute for the Study of War (ISW), and they now control 19.3% of Ukrainian territory. The Kremlin on Wednesday said Putin was ready to keep meeting with the Americans "as many times as needed". But as Russian-American relations appear to grow more cordial, the gulf between Moscow and Europe widens. Putin has accused Europe of sabotaging Russia's relations with the US, of putting forward demands Moscow could not accept and of blocking the peace process. Shortly before meeting Witkoff and Kushner, Putin told a forum in Moscow that while he did not want conflict with Europe, he was "ready for war". UK government officials rejected Putin's message as "yet more Kremlin claptrap from a president who isn't serious about peace". Nato foreign ministers met in Brussels on Wednesday and Secretary-General Mark Rutte said that it was positive that peace talks were taking place but Ukraine had to be put in "the strongest position to keep the fight going". EU member states have reached a deal with members of the European Parliament to make Europe fully independent of Russian gas before the end of 2027. The European Commission is also proposing to raise €90bn for Ukraine to fund its military and basic services while Russia's war continues, which would cover two-thirds of Ukraine's financing needs for the next two years. The plan would either require Belgium to agree to a "reparations loan" using frozen Russian assets held in a financial institution in Brussels, or the money would be funded by international borrowing. Belgium has resisted the plan to use frozen assets held on its territory, over concerns about legal repercussions from Moscow. The European Central Bank (ECB) has also opposed the idea, saying it would not act as a backstop for a reparations loan. The proposed loan is smaller than the planned €140bn loan initially planned. Additional reporting by Amy Walker Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
What does the latest round of diplomacy on Ukraine tell us about Russian President Vladimir Putin's mood and intentions? For starters, that he's not ready to sign a peace deal. At least, not right now. And certainly not the deal (or deals) on the table. "No compromise version has yet been found," commented Kremlin foreign policy aide Yuri Ushakov after five hours of talks in Moscow involving Putin, US envoy Steve Witkoff, and Donald Trump's adviser and son-in-law Jared Kushner. No compromise is no real surprise, considering the Kremlin leader's uncompromising comments in recent days. In various statements he has condemned the Ukrainian leadership as a "thieving junta", accused European leaders of trying to sabotage peace efforts, and insisted that Russia holds the initiative on the battlefield. On a couple of recent occasions Russian TV showed Putin in military fatigues, studying maps of the front line and trumpeting military gains, many of which Ukraine and international observers have denied. After nearly four years of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, despite the heavy losses Russia has suffered on the battlefield and the damage to the Russian economy, President Putin seems convinced that he is winning this war and that now is not the moment to stop. At least, that is what he would like the West to believe: that nothing can stop him now from achieving his goals. I've said before that, in many ways, Vladimir Putin reminds me of a car with no brakes, no steering wheel and no reverse gear; a vehicle careering full speed down the motorway. Nearly four years after the full-scale invasion of Ukraine there is still no sign of the "Putinmobile" turning off, turning back, or coming to a halt. He certainly wants his opponents to think that nothing or no one can force him to change direction: neither European leaders, nor the Trump administration, nor President Zelensky. But cars need fuel (a constant supply). And, to fight a war, countries need money (a constant supply). For now, despite international sanctions, Russia's government is still able to finance the "special military operation" - its war on Ukraine. But economic pressures are building: revenues from oil and gas have been falling, the budget deficit growing. Even Putin admits there are problems, referring to "imbalances" in the economy. "In several sectors, production output not only failed to increase this year but actually decreased," Putin said this week. "Are we satisfied with such trends? No." The big unknown: at what point, if at all, will economic concerns start to influence the Kremlin's calculations on the battlefield? A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Five hours of talks between Russian President Vladimir Putin and US President Donald Trump's senior negotiator appear to have failed to produce a breakthrough on securing a Ukraine peace deal. A Kremlin spokesman said the Moscow meeting was "constructive", but parts of the plan remained unacceptable to Russia. Trump's special envoy Steve Witkoff and son-in-law Jared Kushner attended the talks after weeks of intensive diplomacy aimed at ending the war. The US team has not commented since leaving Moscow. Earlier on Tuesday, Putin said changes proposed by Kyiv and Europe to a US-backed draft peace plan were unacceptable, adding if Europe "wants to go to war and starts one, we are ready right now". Ukraine and its allies have been lobbying the US to amend its draft peace deal, which the White House has sought to secure rapid agreement on and the Kremlin has previously indicated it was receptive to. That plan, which was widely seen as being favourable to Russia after being leaked to the media in November, has undergone several changes in recent weeks. Asked about the proposal after the Moscow meeting, Putin's senior aide Yuri Ushakov said the Kremlin "agreed with some points… but some things we criticised". He added: "We have not come up with a compromise version yet... A lot of work lies ahead." Key disagreements between Moscow and Kyiv remain, including over Ukraine agreeing to cede territory it continues to control and security guarantees provided by Europe. Moscow and Ukraine's European allies also remain starkly at odds over their expectations of what a peace settlement should look like. Speaking ahead of the talks, Putin lashed out at leaders on the continent who have supported Kyiv's defensive war effort since Russia launched a full-scale invasion in 2022. He said European leaders were under the illusion they could inflict a strategic defeat on Russia. His country, he said, "wasn't planning to go to war with Europe - but if Europe suddenly wants to go to war and starts one, we are ready right now". Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said he expected to be briefed on the Kremlin talks by the US team after the meeting, though it was unclear whether Witkoff and Kushner would fly to Kyiv or other European capitals for further in-person negotiations. Speaking before the Kremlin talks took place, the Ukrainian leader said on Tuesday there was an opportunity to end the war "now more than ever", but that elements of the proposals still needed to be worked out. "Everything depends on today's discussions," Zelensky told a press conference during an official visit to Ireland. Zelensky said there were "no simple solutions", repeating his country's insistence that Kyiv take part in peace discussions, and that clear security guarantees be agreed, such as Nato membership - a move long opposed by Russia and ruled out by Trump. "We have to stop the war in such a manner that in one year, Russia would not come back", Zelensky added. Ukrainian representatives have held two rounds of high-level talks on the draft plan in recent weeks, which have been attended by Witkoff, Kushner and US Secretary of State Marco Rubio. The White House said the proposals had been "very much refined" as a result, although details of the updated plan have not been confirmed. Putin - who believes Russia has the initiative on the battlefield - had appeared immovable on his demands as recently as last week, while Zelensky has repeatedly said he would never relinquish control of eastern Ukrainian regions. While Tuesday's talks were under way, Trump told his cabinet in Washington that the conflict had not been easy to resolve, describing the conflict as "a mess". In a Fox News interview broadcast on Tuesday, Rubio said the US had "made some progress" in recent weeks, but refused to be drawn on how confident he was that a deal could be reached, saying much rested with the Russian president. He continued: "The decisions have to be made, in the case of Russia, by Putin alone - not his advisers, Putin only. Putin can end this war on the Russian side." Kyiv's European allies had countered the US-backed 28-point plan with their own document - removing many of the most contentious elements, such as Washington's recognition of Donetsk and Luhansk as de facto Russian. Zelensky had met French President Emmanuel Macron on Monday, with several European leaders joining the meeting virtually. Macron said there was "no finalised plan to speak of" and that it could only be achieved with input from Ukraine and Europe. Meanwhile, fighting continued on the front lines on Tuesday. Ukraine's military said it was still engaging Russian troops in the key eastern city of Pokrovsk - contradicting Moscow's claim to have captured it. Russia's Ministry of Defence shared a video on Telegram claiming to show its troops holding up flags in the strategically important city, which they have been trying to seize for over a year. Ukraine's eastern military command claimed Russia had tried to "flag-plant" in the city so that "propagandists" could say it had been captured. "They fled in a hurry, and the mopping up of enemy groups continues," it said in a statement on social media. Ukraine's military said its forces still controlled the northern part of the city, with Russian units suffering heavy losses, while international observers also disputed Russia's claim to the area. The military in Kyiv also dismissed Russia's claims to have captured the north-eastern Ukrainian border town of Vovchansk and said it had "significantly improved" its position in the northeastern city of Kupyansk, which Russia claimed to have conquered a fortnight ago. Since Russia invaded Ukraine on 24 February 2022, tens of thousands of soldiers have been killed or injured - alongside more than 14,000 civilians, according to the UN. Civilian targets including kindergartens, hospitals and residential buildings have been destroyed or heavily damaged by nightly drone or missile attacks. The conflict between the two ex-Soviet states stretches back to 2014 when Ukraine's pro-Russian president was overthrown and Russia responded by annexing Crimea and supporting armed uprisings in eastern Ukraine. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Irish government has approved an extra €125m (£110m) in support for Ukraine in a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday. It comes after the Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky arrived in Dublin in the Republic of Ireland for an official one-day visit. Taoiseach (Irish Prime Minister) Micheál Martin made the announcement at a press conference with Zelensky. Martin said it was an honour to welcome Zelensky and the first lady Olena Zelenska on the first official visit of a Ukrainian president to Ireland. They left later on Tuesday night where Tánaiste (Irish deputy prime minister) Simon Harris said it had been an "honour to have them both in Ireland". Martin said Ireland would continue to support Ukraine for as long as was needed. He said the visit came at a "critical moment" for Ukraine and for Europe and underlined the value he placed in "the friendship between Ukraine and Ireland". "Our is a relationship built on shared values, freedom, democracy, the right of all states to determine their own future - values the people of Ukraine have sacrificed to defend and protect," he added. Martin said Ireland was "open to contributing to peacekeeping and peace monitoring in Ukraine". He said Ireland would also be willing to help in post-war construction in Ukraine. President Zelensky said Ireland was a "neutral country" but not an "indifferent country". "You are helping us and we appreciate it... Ireland's interests really matter because it is the influence of a large global community." He said Ireland and Ukraine had signed a roadmap for a partnership between the countries for at least the next five years. "We hope that during this period, Ukraine will become a member of the European Union," he said. He also expressed his gratitude to the Irish government, Irish communities and "every Irish home" that has sheltered Ukrainians. Earlier, a guard of honour took place as Zelensky visited Government buildings in Dublin, where the Ukrainian and Irish anthems were played. It is understood Zelensky was also updated on the peace talks by a Ukrainian delegation in Dublin during the visit. Ukrainian and US negotiators held meetings in Florida in recent days in an effort to revise a peace deal viewed as favouring Russia. US President Trump's special envoy Steve Witkoff is is meeting Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow later. Zelensky also visited Aras an Uachtarain on Tuesday, where he was greeted by Irish President Catherine Connolly, and signed the visitors book in her study. "We greatly appreciate Ireland's generosity in providing temporary shelter to displaced Ukrainians," he wrote in the book. Irish ministers signed off on an extra €100m (£88m) in funding for non-lethal military support for Ukraine and a further €25m (£22m) for the country's urgent energy needs. Martin said on Tuesday that to date Ireland had provided €340m (£299m) in financial support to Ukraine, including more than €173m (£152m) in humanitarian supports, and €166m (£146m) in non-lethal military assistance. The proposals were brought to the meeting, which took place in Dublin, by Foreign Affairs and Trade Minister Helen McEntee. McEntee also proposed Ireland's participation in an International Claims Commission for Ukraine. The commission will be responsible for determining claims for damage, loss or injury caused by Russian internationally wrongful acts committed by the Russian federations against Ukraine, an Irish government source said. Zelensky also addressed both Irish houses of parliament - the Dáil and the Seanad. Speaking before the address, Ceann Comhairle (Speaker) Verona Murphy said the Good Friday Agreement was "born from decades of pain and division". "Yet it proved that even the deepest wounds can heal when people choose negotiation over violence. "That lesson gives us hope for Ukraine," Murphy said. In his address, Zelensky said Ukrainian and Irish people are among "the few in Europe who spent centuries fighting for the right to remain themselves". "Ireland has stood firmly and clearly for our independence and for a just end to this war so thank you for your steadfast support for these years of standing with us," he added. The Ukrainian leader was given a standing ovation after the address. He later attended the inauguration of the Ireland-Ukraine Economic Forum, alongside Harris and McEntee. More than 120,000 Ukrainian refugees have sought refugee status in Ireland since the outbreak of war in Ukraine in February 2022. Some have returned and about 80,000 are estimated to be still living in Ireland. Ukrainian refugee Uriivna Olena is one of a group of women who attend Ukrainian Mass every Sunday in north Dublin and prays for the war to end. The women are hopeful peace talks currently under way will be successful to end the war. "We go every Sunday to church to pray and we pray for children, for humans, for soldiers, for all of people and we wish war would end soon," she told BBC News NI after a Mass service finished last Sunday. "All of us are paying for peace in Ukraine. We hope that this terrible war is finally ended," said Tetiana Bilous, who is also a Ukrainian refugee. She said the war starting has been "very difficult" and "understanding someone can have aggression against us, we are just people, citizens." "We were living a normal life and suddenly everything was interrupted, everything was ended." Ms Bilous said she is very grateful for the support from Ireland. Mykhaylo Fedynshyn has been living in Ireland for more than  20 years and he also attended Mass. "My relatives still work in Ukraine and I hope they will get back to normal life, as it was before the war. So no missile, no sirens, no explosions." He said he is hopeful peace talks would be successful. "[I am hopeful] because Ukrainian people fighting so hard for independence, for freedom, so it has to be ended at some stage. But I believe it will be in Ukrainian favour, we will get the victory over our enemy." An Garda Síochána (Irish police) said those travelling to Dublin Airport, should allow additional time to arrive at the airport due to possible rolling road closures, particularly on Tuesday evening. Traffic restrictions will be in place on: The public can also expect localised road closures to facilitate events and temporary rolling road closures to facilitate security escorts over the course of Tuesday. A wreath was laid by the Irish President Catherine Connolly at the General Post Office (GPO) in the Irish capital and in Belfast thousands of people turned out for a parade in the west of the city. Does the island have a problem with the Irish language or more specifically the spelling of words in Irish? A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. The incident happened at 15:00 local time at Station Roundabout, Port Road, Letterkenny. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Trains no longer run to Ukraine's eastern Donetsk region - part of the Donbas claimed in its entirety by Russia's President Vladimir Putin. It's another sign of the steady Russian advance. Instead, the last station is now on the western side of the Donetsk border. This is where civilians and soldiers wait for a ride towards relative safety - their train to get out of Dodge. Putin has been sounding more bullish since the leak of US proposals to end the war, widely seen as being in tune with his maximalist demands. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky says territory remains the most difficult issue facing US-led peace talks. At the last station on the line, soldier Andrii and his girlfriend Polina are parting after an all-too-brief time together. Andrii has to return to the front and they don't know when they'll see each other again. He laughs when I mention peace talks, which have seen Donald Trump's envoys speak to Ukrainian negotiators before heading to Moscow, and dismisses them as "chatter, just chatter". He doesn't think the war will be over soon. There is scepticism, too, among other soldiers who board the train west for a brief respite from the fighting. They are taking some of their 20 days of leave. Most look exhausted. Russian forces now control some 85% of the Donbas, made up of Luhansk and Donetsk. On Tuesday they claimed to have captured the key strategic town of Pokrovsk in Donetsk. Ukraine said fighting was continuing in the city. Denys, who has been serving in the Ukrainian army for the past two years, tells me "everyone's drained, everyone's tired mentally and physically". Some of his comrades have already fallen asleep. His unit has been fighting in the besieged city of Kostyantynivka. "It's scary, really scary," he says, describing drones flying around "like flies". But he makes it clear they are not ready to give up after sacrificing so much. "Nobody will give Putin the Donbas. No way, it's our land," he says. Ceding territory where at least a quarter of a million Ukrainians live - the Donetsk "fortress belt" cities of Slovyansk, Kramatorsk and Druzhkivka - will not be acceptable to most Ukrainians. Russia has spent well over a year trying to capture Pokrovsk and Ukraine is reluctant to hand over such important strategic hubs. But US officials believe Ukraine is both outnumbered and outgunned. There's already been an exodus of civilians from the Donbas. It's continuing as  peace talks take place. We witness dozens, old and young, arriving at a reception centre just over the border in Lozova. They had taken advantage of heavy fog to make their escape. Less chance of being targeted by drones. Around 200 people arrive at this one reception centre every single day. They're given basic supplies and some money. Yevheniy and his wife Maryna have just arrived from Kramatorsk, along with their two children. She tells me there are "more drones now". "It's getting harder and harder to even go outside. Everything is dangerous," she says. "Even going to the shop, you might not come back." The family are planning to move to the capital, Kyiv. Yevheniy has little faith in the peace talks. He says "that side [Russia] won't agree to our terms. We understand nothing good will come of it". But others appear more willing to contemplate giving up their home for good in return for peace. Oleksandr says it is too dangerous to stay. His children have already gone to Germany. While he describes Russia's maximalist demands as "probably unacceptable", he appears willing to contemplate some of what was in the leaked peace plan - trading territory for peace. The original version of the US draft envisaged that areas of Donbas still under Ukrainian control be handed over to Russia de facto. "Personally I would agree to those terms," he says. Inna, escaping with her five children, also believes it's time to make a deal. She could no longer hide her kids, aged between nine months and 12 years, from the dangers of living in Kramatorsk. She had tried telling them the explosions they heard while seeking shelter in their cellar were just fireworks. "The main thing is that there will be peace," Inna says. When I ask whether that means giving up her home for good, she replies, "in this situation, yes". They're already making plans to rebuild their lives elsewhere. Some soldiers sent to the Donbas are also voting with their feet. There have been nearly 300,000 cases of desertion, or soldiers going  absent without official leave, since the start of Russia's full scale invasion - and numbers have risen dramatically over the past year. One of them is Serhii - not his real name. We met him in hiding. His home has become his prison as he tries to evade arrest. Serhii volunteered to fight at the start of the year, whereas most of the men in his unit were forcibly mobilised - "taken off the street". He says his unit was already below strength when it was sent to the front, near Pokrovsk, and they weren't properly trained or equipped. "I ended up in a battalion where everything was a mess," he says, although he still believes this was the exception, not the norm. Serhii deserted in May after two of his friends went awol. "I wouldn't have gone if we had proper leadership and someone experienced in charge," he says. "I came to serve, not to run". Serhii is still thinking about his next move, and the possibility of returning to the army. But he echoes recent US warnings that the odds in this war are stacked against Ukraine. Asked whether he believes Ukraine can win, he is doubtful. "If you think logically, no. A country of 140 million against us with 32 million - logically it doesn't add up." Additional reporting by Mariana Matveichuk A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russian President Vladimir Putin will meet US special envoy Steve Witkoff in Moscow on Tuesday, after the White House said it was "very optimistic" about reaching a deal to end the Ukraine war. US President Donald Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, who has acted as an outside adviser in diplomatic talks, is also expected to attend. The summit comes after two days of negotiations in Florida between Ukrainian and US officials, including Witkoff and Kushner, aimed at refining a US-backed peace plan which had been viewed as favourable to Russia. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky described the talks as "constructive", but said there were "some tough issues that still have to be worked through". Witkoff's meeting with Putin will be during the second half of Tuesday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. Speaking after a meeting with French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris on Monday, Zelensky said Kyiv's priorities in peace talks were maintaining Ukraine's sovereignty and securing strong security guarantees. Zelensky said the "territorial issue is the most difficult" element of the peace deal, with the Kremlin continuing to push for Ukraine to cede territory in the east which it still controls - something Kyiv has long-maintained it will never do. The talks in Moscow on Tuesday come hours after Russian officials claimed to have captured the key strategic town of Pokrovsk in eastern Ukraine, referred to by Russia by its Soviet-era name Krasnoarmeysk, and the north-eastern Ukrainian border town of Vovchansk. Ukrainian officials made no acknowledgement that either city had fallen to Russia and open-source intelligence projects monitoring the front lines of the war suggested neither Vovchansk nor Pokrovsk had yet been fully captured by the Russian army. The head of Ukraine's centre for countering disinformation, Andriy Kovalenko, said it seemed Russia's main aim was to ensure all the pressure in the US peace plan was put on Ukraine. Russia has spent almost a year and a half trying to capture Pokrovsk and released a video showing Putin visiting a command post at the weekend in which he was quoted as saying Russia had made progress in "an important area, we all understand just how important". Ahead of his trip to Moscow, Witkoff also held talks with UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, Zelensky and Ukraine's new chief negotiator Rustem Umerov, while several key European leaders virtually joined the Zelensky-Macron meeting. Speaking on Monday, White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt said the draft peace deal had "been very much refined", adding: "I think the administration feels very optimistic." She continued: "But as for the details, I will let the negotiators negotiate. But we do feel quite good, and we're hopeful that this war can finally come to an end." Last week, Putin said he had seen a draft peace plan proposed by the US, and that it could become the "basis" for a future agreement to end the war. However, Kremlin officials later cast doubt over whether it would accept the proposal after Kyiv and European allies said they had secured changes to it. The initial US-Russia draft peace plan circulated in November sparked consternation in Kyiv and around Europe. As well as being heavily slanted towards Moscow's demands, it also dictated how several billion in frozen Russian assets currently held in European financial institutions should be invested, as well as setting the terms for Ukrainian market access in Europe. Speaking on Monday, Macron said there was currently "no finalised peace plan to speak of", and insisted that any such proposal could only be worked out with input from Ukraine and Europe. Macron said the question of territorial concessions could "only be finalised by President Zelensky", and pointed out that questions around frozen Russian assets, security guarantees, and Ukraine's accession to the EU needed to involve European nations. The French leader also praised efforts by the Trump administration to end the conflict, which began in 2014 with Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea, followed by a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Kaja Kallas, the EU's foreign policy chief, said this week could be "pivotal", but that Moscow only wanted to negotiate "with those who are just offering them something on top of what they already have". She continued: "I'm afraid all the pressure will be put on the weaker side because that is the easier way to stop this war when Ukraine surrenders, but this is not in anybody's interest." In recent months Moscow has at times appeared to engage with US attempts to mediate an agreement to end the war, but several of its demands directly counter Ukraine's sovereignty and are seen as unacceptable by Kyiv. While the question of territory is the major sticking point, the issue of security guarantees for Kyiv has also proved contentious. Kyiv and its European partners are keen for Ukraine to be given security guarantees - such as Nato membership - that would protect it from being attacked again. But Russia vehemently opposes this and Trump has also ruled out allowing Ukraine to join the military alliance. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Zelensky has said Kyiv's priorities in peace talks to end the war with Russia are maintaining Ukraine's sovereignty and securing strong security guarantees. Zelensky said "the territorial issue is the most difficult", as Russia continues to demand that Ukraine give up areas of the eastern Donbas region that it still holds – which Kyiv maintains it will never do. He was speaking after meeting French President Emmanuel Macron in Paris, where he joined a call with European leaders including those of the UK, Germany, Poland, and Italy. Meanwhile, Ukrainian and US negotiators finished two days of meetings in Florida as they worked to revise a peace plan viewed as favouring Russia. The White House struck a positive tone on the talks on Monday, with Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt saying the administration "feels very optimistic" about a deal being reached to end the war. Zelensky was more circumspect, posting on X that the talks were "very constructive" but there are "some tough issues that still have to be worked through". US special envoy Steve Witkoff, who attended the talks with the Ukrainian delegation, is now bound for Russia where he will meet Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday. They will be joined by President Trump's son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner. Witkoff has spoken with Zelensky, Macron, Ukrainian chief negotiator Rustem Umerov, and UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer, and is expected to relay the result of the discussions to Putin. Last week Putin said a draft peace plan had been shown by the Americans to Russia, and that it could become the "basis" for a future agreement to end the war. The initial US-Russia draft peace plan circulated in November sparked consternation in Kyiv and around Europe. As well as being heavily slanted towards Moscow's demands, it also dictated how several billions' worth of frozen Russian assets currently held in European financial institutions should be invested and dictated the terms of Kyiv's access to EU markets. But Macron said there was currently "no finalised peace plan to speak of". He also insisted that any such proposal could only be worked out with input from Ukraine and Europe. European leaders have scrambled to get a seat at the negotiating table since the peace plan was leaked, and have urged the US to involve them in drafting any future agreement. Macron said that the territorial question could "only be finalised by President Zelensky" and pointed out that issues of frozen Russian assets, security guarantees, and accession to the EU needed to involve European nations. But the French leader also praised efforts by Donald Trump's administration to end the conflict, which began in 2014 with Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and was followed by its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. "Now we are waiting the Russian answer: are they ready to stop fighting and make peace? I want to point out that for three, four times the Russians have said no," he added. "So they don't seem in a rush." Throughout the year Moscow has appeared to engage with US attempts to end the war or discuss a ceasefire, but several of its demands directly counter Ukraine's sovereignty and are seen as unacceptable by Kyiv. While the question of territory is the major sticking point, the issue of security guarantees for Kyiv has also proved contentious. Kyiv and its European partners are keen for Ukraine to be given security guarantees - such as Nato membership - that would protect it from being attacked again. But Russia vehemently opposes this and Donald Trump too has ruled out allowing Ukraine to join the military alliance. Away from the negotiating table, the war continues. On Monday morning a Russian missile attack on the eastern Ukrainian city of Dnipro killed four people and injured 40, authorities have said. Unconfirmed reports say a ballistic missile was used in the strike. Videos shared online showed a large explosion occur on the side of a motorway, and local media said an office block, cars and shops were hit or badly damaged. "We are trying to end this war with all our might and to end this war in a dignified manner," Zelensky said in Paris. "Russia must end this war that it started, it is its war and it is up to it to put an end to it." The latest diplomatic push comes as Zelensky is mired in a serious corruption scandal. His chief of staff Andriy Yermak, who had also led the Ukrainian delegation at peace talks, resigned on Friday after anti-corruption investigators raided his home - although he has not been accused of wrongdoing. Two cabinet ministers have also been fired. On Sunday Trump told reporters on Air Force One that Ukraine had "some difficult little problems", referring to the scandal, and repeated his view that both Russia and Ukraine wanted to end the war. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
New coats, shoes and hooded jackets are being gifted to orphaned children in Ukraine, ahead of Christmas after a fundraising campaign. David Pond, from Kingsand, Cornwall, helped set up a crisis response centre when the war in Ukraine began in February 2022 and has since raised funds to provide supplies, including medical equipment and humanitarian aid for the country. He said the gifts would be delivered to 80 children, ranging from two to 19 years old, at an orphanage in Lviv, on 12 December. Mr Pond said: "This is a wonderful opportunity to give children, who are suffering significant turmoil, a set of brand new clothes." Mr Pond, former commodore of HMS Raleigh, said about £350,000 had been raised for the project enabling him to deliver supplies, described as missions, to Ukraine four to five times a year. Volunteers helped wrap and organise the gifts at Maker with Rame Institute on Sunday and described it as "very personal" because each gift is labelled with a child's name. Maggie Cardew, who has been contributing to the efforts, said: "You come across the names of the children, and you immediately think about the children themselves." Mr Pond's wife Lesley helped select and order the new items which cost about £100 per child meaning they had to raise about £8,000 in total. She said thanks to the funds each child would receive a padded winter coat, their own hooded jumper and waterproof shoes and they had received all the sizes of the children at the orphanage. "We've been matching up Ukrainian sizes, feet and height," she said. "The coats have lovely fur hoods because it is super cold compared to Cornwall." Jane Baker who was helping to wrap the gifts said Mr and Mrs Pond wanted brand new items rather than "hand me downs". "The children are getting the respect any of our children may get," she said. "I couldn't imagine anything worse than living in a war-torn country, particularly at Christmas time." Follow BBC Cornwall on X, Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US Secretary of State Marco Rubio says talks with Ukraine over a deal to end the Russia-Ukraine war were productive, but there's "more work to be done". The talks, held in Florida, were attended by a Ukrainian delegation led by national security council secretary Rustem Umerov, Ukraine's new chief negotiator. Also at the meeting were President Donald Trump's envoy Steve Witkoff and Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner. Witkoff is expected to travel to Moscow on Monday for talks with the Russian side, which Russia says will take place on Tuesday. Umerov was brought in to replace the Ukrainian president's top negotiator, Andriy Yermak, after he quit following an anti-corruption raid on his home. Sunday's meeting is the latest step in two weeks of intense diplomatic activity. It was sparked by the leaking of a 28-point US peace plan which shocked Ukraine and its European allies for appearing to favour Russia, which invaded Ukraine nearly four years ago. "It's not just about the terms that ends fighting," Rubio said at the meeting in Hallandale Beach, north of Miami. "It's about also the terms that set up Ukraine for long-term prosperity... I think we built on that today, but there's more work to be done." He also told the Ukrainian delegation that the aim of peace talks with Russia is to leave Ukraine "sovereign, independent and prosperous". As Sunday's talks began, Umerov said: "We are discussing about the future of Ukraine, about the security of Ukraine, about no repetition of aggression of Ukraine, about prosperity of Ukraine, about how to rebuild Ukraine". "US is hearing us," he said, speaking in English. "US is supporting us. US is working beside us." He later described the talks as "productive and successful" while Rubio said they had been "very productive and useful". Speaking to reporters on Air Force One on Sunday, Trump said the talks were "going along well", and there was a good chance of a deal being made to end the conflict. Trump said earlier he would send Witkoff and possibly also Kushner to Moscow this week to meet President Vladimir Putin, to discuss the peace plan which has been much revised. Witkoff was due to travel on Monday, a US official told the BBC's US partner, CBS News. The Kremlin later said that Witkoff would meet Russian President Vladimir Putin on Tuesday. Commenting on the latest US-Ukrainian talks in a post on social media, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky said: "It is important that the talks have a constructive dynamic and that all issues were discussed openly and with a clear focus on ensuring Ukraine's sovereignty and national interests." He added he was grateful to the US and Trump for their efforts to try and end the war. One crucial unresolved issue is the fate of Ukrainian territory that Russia has either annexed or controls. The talks in Florida were "not easy", a source who is said to be close to the Ukrainian delegation told AFP news agency. "But everyone is trying to be constructive and find a solution," the source added. Zelensky is due to visit Paris on Monday for talks with French President Emmanuel Macron, a strong ally. Tens of thousands of soldiers have been killed or injured, as well as thousands of civilians, and at least seven million people have become refugees since Russia invaded on 24 February 2022. The conflict between the two ex-Soviet states stretches back to 2014 when Ukraine's pro-Russian president was overthrown and Russia responded by annexing Crimea and supporting armed uprisings in eastern Ukraine. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian naval drones hit two oil tankers from Russia's so-called "shadow fleet" as they travelled through the Black Sea, Ukrainian officials have said. Footage verified by the BBC shows waterborne drones speeding through the waves into the vessels, before detonating into a ball of flame, sending black smoke into the air. The targeted tankers were named by Turkish authorities as the Kairos and Virat, both flagged to the Gambia. Both were hit off the Turkish coast on Friday, with the Virat reportedly struck again on Saturday. No casualties were reported. The attacks appear to be an escalation by Kyiv as it tries to hit Russia's oil revenues, which are critical for funding its war in Ukraine. The two ships are reportedly part of Russia's "shadow fleet" - a term that refers to the hundreds of tankers used by Russia to bypass Western sanctions imposed after its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. The shadow fleet is largely made up of aged tankers, many with obscure ownership or insurance. The Kairos was struck in the south-west area of the Black Sea and the Virat in a central area further east. Both are on a list of ships subject to sanctions, according to London Stock Exchange data. The attack employed Sea Baby drones - a type of naval drone produced by Ukraine's security services, known as the SBU. Turkish authorities said they had been assisting the vessels, and released footage showing two Turkish boats trying to extinguish the fire on the Kairos. The attacks are seen as a warning by Ukraine, suggesting that ships carrying Russian oil in the Black Sea face the risk of direct attack, not just Western sanctions. Separately, a major consortium transporting oil from the Caspian region said it had suspended loading in the Russian Black Sea port of Novorossiysk, after an attack by unmanned boats overnight. The Caspian Pipeline Consortium said the attack had caused significant damage to a mooring point. Russia and Kazakhstan are major stakeholders in the company, which is also part-owned by Western firms including Exxon Mobil, Chevron and Shell. Kazakhstan's Foreign Minister Aibek Smadiyarov expressed his indignation with the attack, which he said was the third of its kind. He said Kazakhstan attached particular importance to ensuring a "stable and uninterrupted" energy supply. The incident had harmed relations between his country and Ukraine, Smadiyarov added, calling on Kyiv "to take concrete measures to prevent the recurrence of such situations". Meanwhile, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Saturday that a delegation led by top security official Rustem Umerov was on its way to the US to continue talks on an agreement to end the war. Umerov is set to lead the Ukrainian delegation as the previous lead negotiator, Zelensky's influential chief of staff Andriy Yermak, resigned after anti-corruption detectives searched his apartment on Friday. The Ukrainian delegation is expected to meet US officials in Florida on Sunday. Steve Witkoff, US President Donald Trump's overseas envoy, will hold talks in Moscow next week. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
More than 600,000 people in the Kyiv region of Ukraine were without power on Saturday morning after an overnight Russian attack. Ukraine's energy ministry said more than 500,000 of these were in the capital itself, with the rest in the surrounding region. It attributed the power losses to missile and drone strikes on energy infrastructure in the city and several other regions. Around 36 missiles and nearly 600 drones were launched on targets across Ukraine overnight, officials said, killing three and injuring dozens of others. Russia has intensified attacks on Ukrainian civilian and energy infrastructure as the embattled nation heads into winter, despite US-led efforts to secure a peace deal. Russia's defence ministry said it had launched "a massive strike... against Ukrainian military-industrial complex enterprises and the energy facilities that support their operation". Dtek Energy, which serves properties in Kyiv, said later on Saturday that power had been restored to more than 360,000 families. As well as energy infrastructure, several residential buildings were hit in the overnight strikes, Ukrainian officials said. Loud explosions were heard across Kyiv early on Saturday morning. Emergency services were later seen attending to burning blocks of flats damaged by strikes. Kyiv's Mayor Vitaly Klitschko said a 13-year-old child was among the 29 people injured in the capital city. Ukraine's Air Force said it shot down 558 of the drones and 19 of the missiles. Kyiv is among several cities that have suffered regular aerial bombardment since the start of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Many Ukrainians have also had to live through regular blackouts, as Moscow has targeted energy infrastructure in previous winters. On Sunday it is forecast to fall to 2C in Kyiv, which has average temperatures below freezing in December. Ukraine has targeted Russian energy infrastructure, including oil refineries and depots, in particular with long-range weaponry that can probe deep inside Russia. It says this is to curb revenue for Moscow's war effort from Russia's main export. Meanwhile Ukrainian media is reporting that Ukrainian maritime drones struck two oil tankers in the Black Sea on Friday, which are thought to be part of Russia's so-called "shadow fleet" of vessels used to evade Western sanctions. Video footage published online and verified by the BBC shows a waterborne drone barrelling towards one of the boats, before another video shows fire and smoke billowing out of the vessel's side. The stricken tankers are named Kairos and Virat, according to Turkish authorities. Both are flagged to Gambia. Footage released by Turkey's Transport Ministry shows two of its own boats trying to extinguish the fire on the Kairos. The latest bombardment came as Ukrainian negotiators were preparing for talks with US officials this weekend. US President Donald Trump is pushing for the two sides to accept a draft peace plan, which was initially slanted heavily in favour of Russia but subsequently revised during talks with Ukrainians and their European allies in Geneva. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has welcomed the diplomatic efforts while stressing Kyiv's need to retain its sovereignty and ability to fend off any future attack. On Thursday, Russian President Vladimir Putin repeated his core demands for ending the war, saying Russia would only halt its offensive if Ukraine's troops withdrew from territory claimed by Moscow. Russian forces currently control most - but not all - of Ukraine's eastern Donbas region, as well as a portion of the southern Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions. US and European allies have called for the war to be frozen along the current front line. Putin also confirmed a US delegation including special envoy Steve Witkoff was expected in Moscow in the first half of next week to discuss the draft peace plan. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Andriy Yermak was a constant, looming presence in Ukraine's government - a seemingly immovable figure on the political stage. Despite his towering frame, you might not always have spotted him. Yet, wherever President Volodymyr Zelensky was, Yermak was often not far away. As his chief of staff, Yermak wielded enormous power at the top of government and was even trusted to negotiate on Ukraine's behalf at peace talks with the US. But as his influence grew, so did public resentment of the power this unelected official held. His political career came to an abrupt end on Friday, hours after anti-corruption investigators raided his home in Kyiv. Yermak and Zelensky first met in 2011 when the former was an intellectual property lawyer and the latter a TV producer. After working together during the successful presidential campaign of 2019, Yermak became Zelensky's chief of staff. He stood next to the president as he gave his now famous "we are still here" speech as the Russians descended on Kyiv at the start of their full-scale invasion in February 2022. As Zelensky concentrated his power over time, Yermak was widely viewed as the second most powerful person in Ukraine. He reportedly helped shape foreign policy, ousted political rivals and even made battlefield decisions. Ukrainian politics is shaped by big characters, and Zelensky's administration had not one, but two of them. Despite the favourable conditions Yermak enjoyed within the sprawling Presidential Office, the same couldn't be said outside its steep walls. Zelensky had successfully grappled with corruption scandals in the past, but in July a chain of events began that has shaken the current government to its core, weakening him politically and costing him his right-hand man. That month, the president convinced parliament to formally remove the independence of Ukraine's two anti-corruption bodies and bring them under direct government control. At the time, Zelensky said it was to limit Russian interference. But the public - as well as the European Union - disagreed, and he was forced to U-turn after mass demonstrations. By the autumn, those same agencies, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau (Nabu) and the Special Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (Sapo), released the findings of a lengthy investigation that implicated members of Zelensky's inner circles. Senior figures - including two ministers, a former deputy prime minister and a one-time business partner of Zelensky's - were accused of syphoning $100m (£75m) from public projects in the energy sector. At a time when Russia is pummelling Ukraine's energy grid with missiles and drones ahead of a fourth winter of war - forcing the entire country to endure daily power cuts - public anger at these corruption allegations has soared. Just on Friday night alone, Kyiv endured a nearly 11-hour-long Russian air raid, which left more than half a million people without power. "We're going through one of the most difficult times in our history," Iryna, a Kyiv resident, told the BBC this week. "Unfortunately, lots of families will not see their loved ones, their men, brothers or husbands, because of the war." Despite not being named as a suspect and denying any involvement in the scheme, Andriy Yermak couldn't distance himself. There was a suspicion he may have known something. Local media reported on Saturday that investigators were combing through several laptops and mobile phones they had seized from his flat during their search. Yermak led last week's talks with US Secretary of State Marco Rubio in Geneva, apparently securing some concessions for his country in a US-drafted peace proposal which many feared heavily favoured Russia. At a time when Ukraine is fighting and negotiating for its very survival, his resignation is hugely destabilising. Talks will continue next week. Ukraine's presidential office said on Saturday that Defence Minister Rustem Umerov was the head of a delegation heading to the US. What is not known is whether this will be a timely reboot for Kyiv, or a costly lack of continuity. It is also not known how Yermak is taking his sudden departure from government. The New York Post reported on Saturday that he had texted their paper and vowed to go to the front line. He also declared his innocence. "I'm going to the front and am prepared for any reprisals," he reportedly said. "I am an honest and decent person." But there is a feeling that Yermak's departure is a sign of positive change. "Let's call it what it is: good news," says Olga Rudenko, editor of the Kyiv Independent. "Think about it: a young democracy like Ukraine has independent institutions that are strong enough to investigate the most powerful man in the country - and to do so during the war. "People rooting for Ukraine around the world aren't rooting for a place on the map, but for a place living by certain values - and fighting for them. Today we see these values in action. "This shows why Ukraine is exactly the country worth supporting." Additional reporting by Toby Luckhurst A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said his chief of staff, Andriy Yermak, has resigned following an anti-corruption raid on his home. Yermak, a towering figure with enormous political influence, has been Zelensky's closest adviser throughout Russia's full-scale war, but has come under increasing pressure over an escalating scandal - even though he is not accused of any wrongdoing. Zelensky had recently appointed him to head crucial negotiations, with US President Donald Trump leading a new drive to end the Russia-Ukraine war. In a stark address to the nation outside his presidential office, Zelensky called for unity, warning: "We risk losing everything: ourselves, Ukraine, our future." The corruption scandal has rocked Ukraine for weeks, weakening Zelensky's own position and jeopardising the country's negotiating position with the US at a delicate time. Ukraine, backed by its European allies, has sought to change the terms of a US-led draft peace plan originally seen as heavily slanted towards Russia. Early on Friday Ukraine's two anti-corruption agencies raided Yermak's apartment in Kyiv's government quarters and the chief of staff said on social media that "from my side there is full co-operation". "I'm grateful to Andriy that Ukraine's position on the negotiating track was always presented as required: it was always a patriotic position," Ukraine's president said during his video address in Kyiv. Zelensky said he would start consultations on Saturday on who would replace Yermak as his top adviser: "When all the attention is focused on diplomacy and the defence in a war, inner strength is required." "Russia wants Ukraine to make mistakes – there won't be any mistakes from our side. Our work continues, our fight continues. We have no right... to retreat, to quarrel [among ourselves]." Yermak's departure from Ukraine's leading circle will come as a major blow for Zelensky, with US Army Secretary Dan Driscoll due to arrive in Kyiv by the end of this week as part of Trump's draft peace plan. US officials are heading to Moscow next week and Russia's Vladimir Putin said on Friday he backed a Hungarian offer to host a Trump-Putin summit in Budapest. Putin has continued to promote Russia's maximalist demands to bring an end to the war. He claimed on Thursday that Russian forces had the initiative on the battlefield and the fighting would only end when Ukrainian troops withdrew from the entire eastern Donbas region, including several strategically important cities under Ukrainian control. "If they don't withdraw, we'll achieve this by force of arms," Putin said. Hours before the raid on his flat, Yermak continued to explain his government's position as it comes under US pressure to make territorial concessions to Russia, which launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. "As long as Zelensky is president, no-one should count on us giving up territory. He will not sign away territory," Yermak told The Atlantic website. Yermak, 54, admitted during his interview he was under "enormous" pressure to stand down, adding "the case is fairly loud, and there needs to be an objective and independent investigation without political influence". Ukraine's anti-corruption bureau Nabu and specialised anti-corruption prosecutor's office (Sap) did not explain why they searched his flat. In the past few weeks investigators have linked several high-profile figures to an alleged $100m (£75m) embezzlement scandal in the energy sector. They said they had uncovered an extensive scheme to take kickbacks and influence state-owned companies including state nuclear energy firm Enerhoatom. Russian officials involved in Trump's draft peace plan have talked up the corruption claims, which have alarmed European Union allies. Ukraine is a candidate to join the EU and a report earlier this month highlighted doubts over "commitment to its anti-corruption agenda". Earlier this year Zelensky sought to curb the powers of the two anti-corruption agencies, but he was forced to backtrack almost immediately after widespread protests and objections from Kyiv's Western allies. Zelensky has already fired Energy Minister Svitlana Grynchuk and Justice Minister Herman Halushchenko and several suspects have been detained in the burgeoning corruption scandal that has outraged public opinion because of allegations that money was diverted from key infrastructure projects vital for safeguarding Ukrainian power supplies. As winter starts in Ukraine, Russian attacks have already badly damaged its energy infrastructure and Ukrainians across the country have had to cope with only a few hours of electricity a day. One of the president's former business associates, Timur Mindich, has left the country in the wake of the corruption allegations. Mindich was co-owner of the TV studio Kvartal 95 where Zelensky's acting career took off before he was elected president. In recent weeks Andriy Yermak's popularity has nose-dived and MPs from all parties, including his own, have been calling for his sacking, initially for what they saw as his inflated power for an unelected official, but more recently, the burgeoning corruption scandal. Recent polling suggested 70% of the public wanted him to resign. Zelensky and his now-former chief of staff became friends about 14 years ago, while the future president was a senior media executive and Yermak worked for him as a lawyer. Yermak was made chief of staff a year after Zelensky was elected president in 2019. On the first night of Russia's invasion, they appeared together with colleagues delivering a defiant video message outside the presidential office on Kyiv's Bankova Street, vowing to stay and fight. "We are all here," Zelensky told Ukrainians. "Our soldiers are here, the citizens are here and we are all here. We are defending our independence, and that's how it will continue." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's anti-corruption agencies have begun searching the apartment of President Volodymyr Zelensky's chief of staff Andriy Yermak. One of the two agencies, anti-corruption bureau Nabu, confirmed that its investigative searches had been authorised and said further details would follow. A corruption scandal has engulfed several figures close to Zelensky, though neither he nor his right-hand man Yermak have been accused of any wrongdoing. Andriy Yermak is the president's closest aide and has had his ear throughout Russia's full-scale invasion. He is also Kyiv's lead negotiator in peace talks with the US, but his position has come increasingly under threat from critics calling for him to go. Yermak, 54, confirmed on social media that both Nabu and the specialised anti-corruption prosecutor's office (Sap) were "conducting procedural actions at my home" and had full access to his apartment, with his lawyers on site. "From my side, there is full co-operation," said the chief of staff, who has not been named as a suspect. The searches come at a very awkward moment for Zelensky and his closest ally, with US Army Secretary Dan Driscoll due to arrive in Kyiv by the end of this week as US President Donald Trump pushes ahead with a draft peace plan. US officials are heading to Moscow next week. One of the main sticking points for Ukraine is Russia's demand for Ukraine to hand over the territory it still controls in the eastern Donetsk region. "If they don't withdraw, we'll achieve this by force of arms," Vladimir Putin said on Thursday. Yermak, who wields enormous influence at the top of government in Kyiv, underlined his leading role in the negotiations when he told The Atlantic website hours before news of the searches emerged that "as long as Zelensky is president, no-one should count on us giving up territory. He will not sign away territory". However, Putin has been emboldened by minor territorial gains by Russian forces, claiming their offensive "is practically impossible to hold back". Meanwhile, Zelensky's own position has been weakened by the domestic corruption scandal, and Russia's president has long questioned his legitimacy as leader. The corruption scandal has rocked Ukraine this month, with investigators linking  several leading public figures to an alleged $100m (£75m) embezzlement scandal in the energy sector. The two anti-corruption agencies, Nabu and Sap, said they had uncovered an extensive scheme to take kickbacks and influence state-owned companies including state nuclear energy firm Enerhoatom. Domestically, the corruption inquiry probe is being welcomed, but internationally it leaves Ukraine's negotiating position in a potentially perilous state. Russian officials involved in the draft peace plan have talked up the corruption claims, which have alarmed European Union allies. Ukraine is a candidate to join the EU and a report earlier this month highlighted doubts over "commitment to its anti-corruption agenda". Among Ukrainians, Andriy Yermak's own popularity has nose-dived. MPs from all parties, including his own, have been calling for his sacking, initially for what they saw as his inflated power for an unelected official, but more recently, the burgeoning corruption scandal. Recent polling suggests 70% of the public want him to resign. A number of suspects have already been charged over the scandal that has outraged public opinion because of allegations that money was diverted from key infrastructure projects vital for safeguarding Ukrainian power supplies. Russian attacks have badly damaged Ukraine's energy infrastructure and Ukrainians across the country have had to cope with only a few hours of electricity a day. In his interview late on Thursday, Yermak acknowledged that pressure on him to stand down was "enormous... The case is fairly loud, and there needs to be an objective and independent investigation without political influence". Zelensky has already fired two ministers and several suspects have been detained in the scandal. One of the president's former business associates, Timur Mindich, has fled the country. He was co-owner of the TV studio Kvartal 95 where Zelensky's acting career took off before he was elected president. Despite not being implicated and denying any involvement, Yermak has struggled to distance himself from the scandal. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A pair of friends are hoping to travel 1,200 miles to Ukraine to deliver potentially life-saving aid. Packed with supplies, Stephen Ryder, 69, from Westbury in Wiltshire, and Winkie Fry, from Bruton in Somerset, plan to drive a second-hand ambulance from Dover to Lviv in January. Working with Mighty Convoy, a volunteer-run UK charity which has already led 18 trips to the country, the pair need to raise £7000 to fund the trip. Mr Ryder said he decided "to do something" after becoming "fed up with people wringing their hands and saying how terrible the situation in Ukraine was" despite "not taking action". "It's just the unfairness of it all, which is why I'm doing this," he added. The Mighty Convoy group will travel 1,200 miles from Dover to Calais, on through France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Poland before reaching Lviv in Ukraine, a journey Mr Ryder said was "important". "We estimate it will take 36 hours in total but it will be so worth it," said Mr Ryder, who presents on Warminster Community Radio and formerly worked as a retail area manager. While aid is supplied, the £7,000 they hope to raise will pay for their vehicle, fuel, insurance and passage into Ukraine. The granddad has already received support from his local community, including Westbury Leigh Primary School who have organised a fundraising bake-sale. Mr Ryder will share the driving with Ms Fry, with the retirees hoping to share updates from Ukraine with their supporters back in the UK. Mr Ryder said: "Winkie Fry is a remarkable woman, she's quite well known in Somerset as she's run several businesses. We believe in a lot of the same things, like the importance of community." While Lviv is 600 miles from the frontline, visiting is not without risk. "I am getting a little concerned, especially when you read about all the things the Russians are doing but I wouldn't say we're scared. It's going to be so worthwhile," added Mr Ryder. Follow BBC Wiltshire on Facebook, X and Instagram. Send your story ideas to us on email or via WhatsApp on 0800 313 4630. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Town Council have issued a formal complaint to NHS England over a scrapped breast screening unit BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Vladimir Putin has doubled down on his core demands for ending the war in Ukraine, saying Russia will lay down arms only if Kyiv's troops withdraw from territory claimed by Moscow. Putin has long pushed for legal recognition of the Ukrainian territories Russia has seized by force. They include the southern Crimean peninsula, annexed in 2014, and the eastern Donbas region, which Moscow now occupies for the most part. For Kyiv, which has ruled out relinquishing the parts of the Donbas it still holds, rewarding Russia for its aggression is a non-starter. Speaking after Putin's address, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky said that Russia "scorned" efforts "to truly end the war". Speaking to reporters during a trip to Kyrgyzstan, Putin accused Kyiv of wanting to fight "to the last Ukrainian" - which he said Russia was "in principle" also ready to do. He repeated his view that Russia has the initiative on the battlefield and the fighting would only end when Ukrainian troops withdrew from Donbas, which is made up of the Luhansk and Donetsk regions. "If they don't withdraw, we'll achieve this by force of arms," he said. Yet Russia's slow gains in eastern Ukraine have come at significant cost of manpower. According to the US-based Institute for the Study of War, at this rate it would take Moscow almost two more years to seize the rest of the Donetsk region. Thursday's remarks were the first time that Putin addressed the hectic diplomatic moves of the last week, which saw the US and Ukraine hold intense discussions over a peace plan reportedly drafted in October by American and Russian officials. The plan, which was heavily slanted towards Moscow's demands, was subsequently revised during talks between Ukrainian and US negotiators in Geneva. European representatives were also in the Swiss city. But it is thought it does not address the issue of the occupied territories which - alongside security guarantees for Ukraine - is the biggest sticking point between Moscow and Kyiv. Putin said that new draft plan has now been shown to Russia, and that it could become the "basis" for a future agreement to end the war. However, he added it was "absolutely necessary" to discuss "certain specific points that need to be put in diplomatic language". Asked about the possibility of Crimea and the Donbas being recognised as under Russian de facto control but not legally, Putin said: "This is the point of our discussion with our American counterparts". A US delegation including special envoy Steve Witkoff was expected in Moscow in the first half of next week, he confirmed. US President Donald Trump told reporters that Witkoff may be joined in Moscow by the president's son-in-law Jared Kushner. Zelensky said in a video address late on Thursday that Ukrainian and US delegations would meet "to translate the points we secured in Geneva into a form that puts us on the path to peace and security guarantees." The Ukrainian president did not mention any names, but his chief of staff Andriy Yermak had said US Army Secretary Dan Driscoll was due to visit Kyiv later in the week. On Wednesday Trump said there were "only a few remaining points of disagreement" between Russia and Ukraine – indicating that any meeting with Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky to discuss these points was contingent on a peace deal being agreed upon. During his comments to reporters Putin again expressed his contempt for the Ukrainian leadership, which he said he considered illegitimate. There was therefore "no use" signing any documents with them, he added. Ukraine has been under martial law since the start of Russia's full-scale invasion in February 2022 and has therefore been unable to hold scheduled elections. Earlier this year, the Ukrainian parliament voted unanimously to affirm the legitimacy of President Zelensky, whose term in office ended in the spring. Putin also dismissed warnings by European leaders that Russia could attack the European continent within the next decades. "That sounds laughable to us, really," he said. The White House and Donald Trump have sounded optimistic about the recent diplomatic push for peace talks, but Europeans have repeatedly expressed their scepticism over whether Putin truly intended to end the war. On Wednesday European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen accused Russia of upholding a post-World War Two mindset and of seeing the European continent as a "sphere of influence" in which sovereign nations could be "carved up". A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A producer of an award-winning film about a man who was killed in Ukraine after he helped rescue hundreds of people said audiences had been moved by themes of "courage, loss and friendship". The documentary Hell Jumper, depicting aid worker Chris Parry, from Truro, won the International Emmy Award for Best Documentary earlier in November. Producer Colin Barr said: "People are genuinely just absolutely stunned by the selflessness" of the 28-year-old who shot footage as he evacuated civilians and travelled through the war-torn country in vehicles known as hell jumpers. Mr Parry wore a body cam during rescues and Mr Barr said: "You can hear his breath, you can almost hear his heartbeat." In the film, Mr Parry said: "I just had to go out there and help, I can't just stand by and let this happen without at least trying to help." He died in January 2023 alongside another volunteer Andrew Bagshaw, as they tried to help evacuate a woman from an area of heavy bombardment in eastern Ukraine. Hell Jumper was made by Expectation for BBC Two and heard from his family and fellow evacuators. Mr Barr said a 12-minute sequence of one of the rescues Mr Parry filmed "feels like an uninterrupted search as Chris runs from a bombed out building, in and out of shops trying to find a family waiting to be evacuated". The film also won the prize for Single Documentary at the Royal Television Society Programme Awards, and the Grand Jury Prize at the Rockie Awards. Follow BBC Cornwall on X, Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk. Police chief James Vaughan says he is committed to restoring frontline officer numbers. Cornwall's Chamber of Commerce president says the route generated most of the airport's revenue. Skye Owen was hospitalised for four weeks in September 2024 after getting sepsis. Organisers say entries capture memorable moments along the South West Coast Path. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Are we any closer to peace in Ukraine? After a frantic, often confusing few days of diplomacy, Donald Trump seems to think so. "We're getting very close to a deal," he told reporters on Tuesday. For his part, Ukraine's President, Volodymyr Zelensky, who had looked and sounded grim over the weekend, said there were now "many prospects that can make the path to peace real". "There are significant results," he said, after reviewing the results of Sunday's key discussions in Geneva, "and there is still much work to be done." But from the Russians, apart from some discontented mutterings about European involvement and unauthorised leaks, the response has been somewhat muted. Kremlin aide Yuri Ushakov said on Wednesday that Moscow viewed some elements of the latest draft positively but "many require special discussions among experts". Separately, President Vladimir Putin's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said it was "premature" to think that a deal was close. Given the gulf that exists between Ukraine and Russia on so many key issues – including territory, Nato membership, who should pay for Ukraine's reconstruction and how will those involved in war crimes be held accountable – it is hard to see all the necessary pieces falling into place anytime soon. Last Wednesday already seems like aeons ago. That is when a leaked draft of a 28-point US plan to end the war first emerged. The plan, whose references to Ukraine giving up territory and limiting the size of its military led some to describe it as a "Russian wish list", caused consternation in Kyiv and sent European diplomats scrambling to limit the perceived damage. In some ways, it felt like a re-run of events in August, when anxious European leaders rushed to Washington to bend Trump's ear after the American president rolled out the red carpet to Putin in Alaska. By the weekend, the Europeans had drafted a counter-proposal, also 28 points long, which replaced the blunt territorial concessions of the US plan with "negotiations on territorial swaps" and stiffened the language on security guarantees, a key concern of Kyiv. But how much influence the Europeans had over Sunday's talks in Geneva remains unclear. A joint US-Ukrainian statement, issued after the talks wrapped up, spoke of "highly productive" discussions, saying any future agreement must deliver a "sustainable and just peace". Sir Keir Starmer was one of several European leaders who seized on the words "sustainable and just" as indicating that progress had been made. Ukrainian officials sounded relieved too. The First Deputy Foreign Minister, Sergiy Kyslytsya, said the latest version of the plan had been slimmed down to just 19 points, with the most contentious issues – territory and Ukraine's future relations with Nato – put off for Trump and Zelensky to decide. Amid recriminations over how the original 28-point version had been leaked (with fingers pointing in multiple directions), a tight veil of secrecy has been drawn around the latest version. Despite talks in Abu Dhabi involving the US army secretary, Dan Driscoll (a new addition to Trump's Ukraine team), Ukraine's military intelligence chief, Kyrylo Budanov, and Russian officials, Ushakov says the plan has still not been discussed in detail. With Trump's envoy Steve Witkoff due in Moscow next week and talk of Zelensky paying another visit to the White House, it seems the pace of diplomacy is not about to let up. "We are now on a fast track to something," says Daniel Fried, former US assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs. "To a failure or a fast track to a success, I can't say, but it's moving fast." Ambassador Fried says last week's 28-point US plan was a "hot mess" but that the impetus behind it is real. "To the Trump administration's credit, it's pushing hard for a settlement." The sense of dread which settled over Kyiv last week - which caused Zelensky to observe that Ukraine was facing one of the most difficult moments in its history – has lifted. "In Geneva, Ukraine's delegation was very satisfied," says Myroslava Gongadze, a non-resident senior fellow at the Atlantic Council's Eurasia Center, speaking from Kyiv. "The point of the exercise was not exactly to make an agreement but to throw out that 28-point plan and put some Ukrainian interest in that possible negotiation and show that Ukraine is really willing to discuss and negotiate." But if Kyiv feels it has successfully countered some of the worst of what was being demanded – and we still do not know how much – there are plenty of lingering concerns. Chief among them: what sort of security guarantees can it expect to receive if it finally strikes a deal with the country that launched an unprovoked invasion of its territory and still seems to covet more? "The essential question we must ask here is security guarantees," says Gongadze. "Who will be giving those guarantees, who is being held accountable and which border would not be violated? "If the answers are weak, then it's setting up Ukraine for another crisis." In response to the original US document's rather vague promise to offer "reliable security guarantees", European leaders spoke of a US guarantee that "mirrors Article 5", a reference to Nato's principle of collective defence. Last week, the Axios news website reported the existence of a separate US paper, presented to Ukraine, which outlines "security assurance modelled on the principles of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, adapted to the circumstances of this conflict". This critical aspect of the plan is clearly still a work in progress. Following Tuesday's virtual meeting of the UK-French led Coalition of the Willing, participants agreed with the US Secretary of State, Marco Rubio, to "accelerate joint work with the United States to take forward the planning on security guarantees". Sir Keir Starmer says operational plans for a multinational "reassurance force" for Ukraine are fully formed but until the Trump administration indicates what, if any, backup it is willing to provide, those plans remain largely theoretical. "Security guarantees are going to have to be fleshed out," says Ambassador Fried. "The Coalition of the Willing is a great idea, but it hasn't landed on any result to date, partly because they are waiting to see whether the Americans will back them and partly because they're waiting to see what they're going into." Where we are on territory is another big unknown. Last week's 28-point plan stated, bluntly, that Crimea, Luhansk and Donetsk would be "recognised as de facto Russian", and that Ukrainian forces would withdraw from the heavily contested parts of the Donetsk region still under Kyiv's control. All this language vanished in the European counter-proposal. Ukraine, it said, would commit "not to recover its occupied sovereign territory through military means". All territorial negotiations, it said, would "start from the Line of Contact" – the current front lines. It is not known the extent to which Europe's approach informed the document that emerged after the talks in Geneva. The joint US-Ukrainian communique offered only an oblique insight, saying the two sides "reaffirmed that any future agreement must fully uphold Ukraine's sovereignty". The word "fully" appeared to be carrying a lot of weight. Given Trump's mercurial approach to the war in Ukraine, Putin's lingering ambitions and Zelensky's domestic difficulties - the current round of diplomacy takes place in the midst of a corruption scandal that is undermining his domestic standing - it is extremely difficult to know where this process goes next. But it might be overly optimistic to think we are near the end. "We're still in the middle of this process," says Leslie Shedd, another of the Atlantic Council's non-resident fellows. "There's certainly a long way to go still." But for all the apparent chaos surrounding the Trump administration's efforts, including a constantly shifting – and possibly competing – cast of characters, Shedd believes the administration is serious. "It appears that the president… [is] truly prioritising finding a peace in Ukraine. And I think that is actually really important." Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen has described the situation surrounding the war in Ukraine as "volatile" and "dangerous" and accused Russia of having no "real intent" of engaging in peace talks. Her comments came shortly before Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said it was "premature" to speak about striking a peace deal. Von der Leyen said Ukraine would need strong security guarantees capable of deterring any further attacks, arguing that Russia still upheld a post-World War Two mindset and saw the European continent as a "sphere of influence". She was addressing the European Parliament in Strasbourg as the US ramped up efforts to mediate a deal between Kyiv and Moscow. Talks this week in Geneva and then Abu Dhabi have resulted in Ukraine agreeing to the "essence" of a peace deal, after changes were made to an initial 28-point plan widely criticised as heavily slanted towards Russia. Zelensky said the new draft represented "the right approach" - but serious points of contention with Russia remain and the Kremlin has consistently played down suggestions of a compromise. In her speech to European Union lawmakers, von der Leyen said: "I want to be clear from the very outset: Europe will stand with Ukraine and support Ukraine every step of the way." She also referenced the issue of €210bn (£185bn) worth of Russian frozen assets held in European financial institutions. Belgium is currently opposing the idea of diverting these assets to Ukraine, as it fears contravening international law and being made to foot the bill should Moscow mount a legal challenge. Other countries too are concerned the repayment of the frozen assets could eventually fall to European taxpayers – although von der Leyen sought to allay those fears, saying she could not picture such a scenario. An "options paper" and a legal text had been prepared by the Commission, she added. A decision on the frozen assets is expected to be agreed by EU leaders in late December. The last days of intense diplomacy have largely excluded the Europeans, who last week were blindsided by the US-Russia 28-point peace plan, which included proposals to hand territory to Russia still under Ukrainian control and limit the size of Ukraine's military. European leaders have since insisted they will need a seat at the table too, before any final agreement over how to end the war can be reached. On Tuesday a meeting of the so-called "coalition of the willing" chaired by France and the UK was convened to discuss security guarantees. "Whatever the design of a future peace treaty, it is clear that much of the implementation will come down to the European Union and its Nato partners," von der Leyen told Parliament. "Nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine. Nothing about Europe without Europe. Nothing about Nato without Nato," she said. German Chancellor Friedrich Merz also insisted Europe was "not a pawn, but a sovereign actor, with its own interests and values." However, as it stands Europeans are not set to be included in the next round of talks and Russia has batted off involvement by European leaders. "The Europeans meddling in all these affairs is, as I see it, completely unnecessary," Kremlin aide Yuri Ushakov said. Instead, US presidential envoy Steve Witkoff is set to travel to Moscow next week, while the US Secretary of the Army Dan Driscoll will go to Ukraine. The US has been engaging in "shuttle diplomacy" between Russia and Ukraine since the start of Trump's second term in office at the start of the year - but so far such efforts have failed to yield meaningful results. Zelensky said on Tuesday he wanted direct talks with Trump before the end of the month to discuss the main divergences between the Ukrainian and the Russian positions, such as sovereignty over Ukraine's eastern regions, membership of Nato and the size of its army. Meanwhile, Trump posted a message on social media saying he would be ready to meet both Zelensky and Putin soon, but "ONLY when the deal to end this war is FINAL or, in its final stages". A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump has defended his special envoy Steve Witkoff as doing the "standard thing" after a leaked recording appeared to show him advising a Russian official on how to appeal to the US president. Trump told reporters on Wednesday that he had not heard the audio, but that Witkoff was doing "what a dealmaker does" to "sell" a US-authored peace plan to both Russia and Ukraine. The leaked call from last month emerged days after the 28-point draft peace plan was presented by the US, which largely reflected Russian positions on ending its full-scale war in Ukraine. Witkoff has visited Moscow several times this year and will meet Russian President Vladimir Putin again next week. He has never gone to Kyiv in his role as special envoy, though other US officials have visited and US army secretary Dan Driscoll went to Kyiv this week. Trump says he will hold further talks with the Ukrainians. Diplomatic talks have continued after the initial draft plan was criticised by Ukrainian and European leaders as being too favourable to Russia. Among the proposals was handing Russia territory in eastern Ukraine currently controlled by Kyiv. The plan has since been revised to better reflect Ukraine's interests and the views of European allies. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said he was ready to meet Trump to discuss outstanding "sensitive points". In the leaked audio recording obtained and shared as a transcript by Bloomberg, Witkoff appeared to advise Yuri Ushakov, Putin's foreign policy adviser, on how to get on Trump's good side. BBC News has not independently verified the reported 14 October call, but Trump said it represented a "very standard form of negotiations". During the leaked conversation, the two men reportedly talked about ending the war, with Ushakov asking if it would be useful to get their bosses - Putin and Trump - to speak. Witkoff is quoted as saying that "my guy is ready to do it", before suggesting how to go about the call. "Just reiterate that you congratulate the president [Trump] on this achievement... that you respect that he is a man of peace and you're just, you're really glad to have seen it happen," Witkoff is quoted as saying. "I think from that it's going to be a really good call." "I told the president that you - that the Russian Federation has always wanted a peace deal. That's my belief," Witkoff adds, according to the transcript. "The issue is is that we have two nations that are having a hard time coming to a compromise." He continues: "I'm even thinking that maybe we set out like a 20-point peace proposal, just like we did in Gaza." The call ends with Witkoff telling Ushakov of an imminent Zelensky visit to the White House, and that "if possible", Trump and Putin should talk before that meeting. What followed was a two-and-a-half hour phone call between the US and Russian presidents, news of which emerged as Zelensky was on his way to Washington last month. Before the Trump-Putin call, the US president had appeared to be running out of patience with his Russian counterpart and had suggested he might provide Ukraine with long-range Tomahawk missiles. By the time Zelensky entered the White House, the atmosphere seemed to have changed. Trump said giving Kyiv Tomahawks could escalate the conflict and that he believed Putin "wants to end the war". Asked about the call being leaked, Yuri Ushakov told Russian state media that it was done to "hinder, probably" and that it was "unlikely" to be done to improve relations. He also confirmed that Witkoff would be visiting Moscow next week as per a "preliminary agreement". It was not clear who was behind the leak, but Bloomberg has also transcribed another reported call between Ushakov and Putin envoy Kirill Dmitriev, who spent days with Witkoff in Miami in late October weeks before the 28-point draft plan emerged. According to that transcript, Dmitriev tells his Russian colleague: "We'll just make this paper from our position, and I'll informally pass it along, making it clear that it's all informal. And let them do like their own." Apparently angered by the report, Dmitriev complained of a "well-funded, well-organised malicious media machine built to spread fake narratives, smear opponents and keep people confused". The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump's overseas envoy Steve Witkoff will hold talks at the Kremlin next week as the US continues to push for a deal to end the war in Ukraine. The visit, which was confirmed by Vladimir Putin's close foreign policy aide Yuri Ushakov on Wednesday, comes after Ukraine said it had reached a "common understanding" with the White House on the outline of a potential peace deal. On Tuesday, Trump said he had tasked Witkoff to meet the Russian president, while the US Secretary of the Army Dan Driscoll was being sent to Ukraine. It follows the emergence last week of a 28-point draft plan, which the US president said had since been "fine-tuned, with additional input from both sides". Speaking to reporters before the Kremlin confirmed the visit, Trump said his son-in-law Jared Kushner - who has acted as an adviser to the White House during previous diplomatic talks - may also attend the Kremlin meeting. He said an agreement would involve land concessions "both ways" and "trying to clean up the border". The president, who has made securing a deal to end the conflict a key foreign policy goal, said he had not given either side a date to agree a deal by, saying "the deadline for me is when it's over". The Kremlin previously said that Russia had not yet been consulted on the new draft deal, warning it may not accept amendments to last week's plan. Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that while Moscow had been in favour of the initial US framework, the situation would be "fundamentally different" if it had undergone substantial changes. As of Tuesday morning the Kremlin had not received a copy of the new plan, Lavrov said, accusing Europe of undermining US peace efforts. American officials did not publicly address Russia's concerns, although Driscoll and Russian representatives held meetings on Monday and Tuesday in Abu Dhabi. Some of the issues which Russia and Ukraine are still deeply at odds over have reportedly remained unaddressed so far, including security guarantees for Kyiv and control of several regions in Ukraine's east where fighting is taking place. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Tuesday that he was ready to meet Trump to discuss outstanding "sensitive points", with his administration aiming for a meeting before the end of the month. "I am counting on further active cooperation with the American side and with President (Donald) Trump. Much depends on America, because Russia pays the greatest attention to American strength," he said. A day earlier, Zelensky said the 28-point plan had been slimmed down, with some provisions removed. Trump wrote on social media that he looked forward to meeting with Zelensky and Putin "soon, but ONLY when the deal to end this War is FINAL or, in its final stages". Despite the White House's relative optimism, European leaders seemed doubtful that, after almost four years of war, peace could be within reach. French President  Emmanuel Macron said he saw "no Russian will for a ceasefire", while Downing Street warned there was "a long way to go – a tough road ahead." On Tuesday, Macron and UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer chaired a meeting of the so-called coalition of the willing, a loose grouping of Ukraine's allies in Europe and beyond who have pledged continued defence support in the event of a ceasefire, including tentative talks on a potential peacekeeping force. During the call – which was also joined by US Secretary of State Marco Rubio – the leaders agreed to set up a task force with the US to "accelerate" work on the security guarantees that could be offered to Ukraine. The issue of security guarantees is only one of the areas on which Moscow and Kyiv are at odds. On Monday, Zelensky said the "main problem" blocking peace was Putin's demand for legal recognition of the territory Russia had seized. Moscow has consistently demanded full Ukrainian withdrawal from the whole of the eastern Donbas, made up of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. Russian forces also control the Crimean peninsula - which Russia annexed in 2014 - and large parts of two other regions, Kherson and Zaporizhzhia. After weeks in which diplomacy appeared to have stalled, there has been a flurry of activity since the US-backed plan was leaked. The original draft included Ukraine agreeing to cede areas it continues to control, pledging not to join Nato and significantly cutting the size of its armed forces - elements which seemed to reflect key Kremlin demands. While Putin said the original draft could form the "basis" for a deal, Zelensky responded by saying Ukraine faced a choice between retaining the US as a partner and its "dignity". European leaders pushed back on several elements. On the eve of talks over the plan in Geneva on Sunday between American, European and Ukrainian officials, Rubio was forced to publicly insist it was "authored by the US" after a group of senators claimed he had told them it was effectively a Russian draft, not the White House's position. Since then, both the US and Ukraine have hailed progress on the draft, with Zelensky saying it represented "the right approach" after securing changes. While Trump had originally pushed for Ukraine to accept the plan swiftly, the president told reporters on Tuesday that the original version "was just a map", adding: "That was not a plan, it was a concept." Also on Tuesday, Bloomberg published a transcript of what it said was a call on 14 October between Witkoff and Yuri Ushakov, Putin's foreign policy aide. Asked about the transcript - in which Witkoff reportedly discussed how the Kremlin should approach Trump, and said Ukraine would have to give up land to secure a peace deal - Trump told reporters it represented a "very standard form of negotiations". BBC News has not independently verified the reported leaked call. Meanwhile, the fighting continues. Both Russia and Ukraine said strikes had been carried out on Tuesday night in Zaporizhzhia. Ukraine's regional head there, Ivan Federov, said at least seven people had been injured, while Yevgeny Balitsky, the Kremlin-installed governor, reported that Kyiv had hit energy grids in areas it controls, leaving up to 40,000 people without electricity. Tens of thousands of soldiers and thousands of civilians have been killed or injured, and millions of people have fled their homes since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine began in February 2022. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
When talks to end the Russia-Ukraine war took an unexpected turn last week, with the leak of a peace plan said to come from the US, the Trump administration dispatched an unlikely figure to attend a flurry of overseas meetings. The youngest-ever army secretary, 39-year-old Dan Driscoll, is often referred to as President Donald Trump's "drone guy" for his embrace of emerging battlefield technologies. Until recently, he was mostly known for discussions of budgets, supplies and staff issues in the military's largest branch. Driscoll does not appear to have a long history of dealing with Russia and Ukraine, or experience in international diplomacy, and has never held public office. So, who is this increasingly prominent figure within the administration? It is Driscoll's relationship with the now-vice president, JD Vance, that brought him into Trump's orbit. Driscoll has a similar background to his friend Vance. Driscoll attended a public university, before joining the US Army, and then earned his law degree at the prestigious Yale University. Vance served in the US Marine Corps before attending a public university and then Yale Law School. Both men also worked in finance after graduating. During his military career, Driscoll became an officer in 2007, led a cavalry platoon and deployed to Iraq for several months in 2009. He has told the story of meeting Vance through a veterans' student group at law school, during which Vance reassured new students that they would at first feel as if they did not belong, but would excel at classes after a few months. Soon, Vance became Driscoll's friend and mentor. Driscoll was on holiday with his family in Switzerland in the summer of 2024 when Vance called to tell him he was going to be Trump's running mate and asked him to join the campaign. The next day, Driscoll flew back to the US, bought a suit at an outlet mall, and took an Uber to the Republican National Convention, he told the alumni magazine for the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill - the institution where he was an undergraduate. Once Trump returned to office, Driscoll was swiftly approved as army secretary in his Senate confirmation vote. His sphere of influence expanded after he became a key figure in Trump's deployment of the National Guard to US cities. Afterwards, he also took over the role of acting director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Driscoll has often spoken about the war in Ukraine - pointing to Ukrainian drones as a relatively cheap, mass-produced technology that is good for fighting. But after being nominated for the army secretary job, he did not initially appear to be involved in negotiations to end the war. Trump was instead relying on his special envoy, Steve Witkoff, to work on a plan for a ceasefire. When details of a 28-point plan drafted by the US and Russia were leaked last week, Ukraine immediately voiced concern at some of its key points - and its European allies followed suit. Driscoll then made an unannounced visit to Ukraine along with other high-ranking Pentagon figures, the most senior military group to travel to Kyiv since Trump took office in January. The purpose, according to a US Army spokesman, was to meet Ukrainian officials and discuss efforts to end the war. Driscoll met Zelensky and was then, according to Politico, feted at a reception at the US ambassador's residence. In subsequent days, Driscoll participated in more discussions with Ukrainian officials in Geneva alongside Secretary of State Marco Rubio, Witkoff and Trump's son-in-law Jared Kushner, and helped draw up an "updated and refined peace framework". He went on to hold talks with Russian officials in Abu Dhabi, according to the BBC's US partner, CBS News. In a social media post on Tuesday, Trump said in an effort to finalise the peace plan, he had directed his envoy Steve Witkoff to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow. He said Driscoll would meet with the Ukrainian side. In nominating Driscoll as his army secretary, Trump wrote he had a "powerful combination of experiences to serve as a disruptor and change agent". Some in Washington are wondering if those qualities and his recent appearance on the world stage mean that Driscoll could one day replace Pete Hegseth, if Hegseth ever steps down as defence secretary. While he has never held public office, Driscoll worked in Congress as an intern for the Senate's veteran affairs committee, and in 2020 he made an unsuccessful bid for a House seat in North Carolina. A former professor has suggested Driscoll aimed "to serve in the military, go to law school and be in politics". There is also the possibility Driscoll could step officially into the role of negotiating with Ukraine when Trump's special envoy to the country, Keith Kellogg, leaves in January. Or he could stay as the head of hundreds of thousands of troops in the US Army. Driscoll has previously highlighted that his father and grandfather served in the military before him, and he often speaks about his vision of transforming the Army. Days before heading to Ukraine, Driscoll described to The Conversation podcast how he imagined the near future, when "every infantryman...will carry a drone into battle" and soldiers would rely on artificial intelligence because human brains will not be able to "keep up" with the pace of action. "Our window to change is right now," he said in a speech in October. "And we will win with silicon and software, not our soldiers' blood and bodies." Correction 11 December: This story has been amended to say that Vance's previous role was in the US Marine Corps, not the US Army The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has welcomed proposed changes to the controversial 28-point peace plan for ending the war with Russia. It appears Ukraine's European allies produced an amended version of the plan after rejecting parts which favoured Russia's war aims. "Now the list of necessary steps to end the war can become doable..." Zelensky said on Telegram. "Many correct elements have been incorporated into this framework." Later, in the early hours of Tuesday, Kyiv's mayor Vitali Klitschko said a wave of Russian missile and drone attacks hit an apartment building in the capital and disrupted electricity and water supplies. Ukraine's Ministry of Energy also confirmed a "massive, combined enemy attack" on the country's energy infrastructure facilities. "Energy officials will begin assessing the consequences and restoration work as soon as the security situation permits," it said in a statement. US and Ukrainian officials met in Geneva on Sunday to discuss the plan, drafted by American and Russian officials in October, which had caused consternation in Kyiv and among its European allies. Russian representatives did not take part in the meeting in Switzerland. A Kremlin official rejected the amendments on Monday as "completely unconstructive". In another development, White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt insisted that the Trump administration was not favouring Russia in its efforts to end the war. "The idea that the United States of America is not engaging with both sides equally in this war to bring it to an end is a complete and total fallacy," she told reporters. President Donald Trump was "hopeful and optimistic" that a plan could be worked out for ending the war, Leavitt added. Following the end of the talks in Geneva, Trump suggested on social media that "something good just may be happening" but added: "Don't believe it until you see it." In Geneva, the talks began with US Secretary of State Marco Rubio having to deny the 28-point plan advocated by Trump had been written by the Kremlin, as several of its elements seemed heavily geared towards Moscow's longstanding demands. Zelensky said on Monday evening that the revised plan was "truly the right approach". "The sensitive issues, the most delicate points, I will discuss with President Trump," he added, without saying when. According to an official in Zelensky's office, the leaked 28-point plan no longer existed. Speaking to the Financial Times, Ukraine's First Deputy Foreign Minister, Sergiy Kyslytsa, who attended the weekend talks in Geneva, said the latest plan consisted of just 19 points, with some of the most politically sensitive elements, including territorial concessions, now due to be decided by the leaders themselves. A virtual "coalition of the willing" meeting of Ukraine's European allies will take place on Tuesday to discuss developments, UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer announced. There was, he said, still work to do for a "just and lasting peace" in Ukraine. In Moscow, Kremlin foreign policy aide Yuri Ushakov told reporters: "The European plan, at first glance... is completely unconstructive and does not work for us." Zelensky said earlier on Monday that the "main problem" remained Putin's demand for legal recognition of territory Russia had taken. Comments by Trump which suggested Ukraine had until 27 November to accept the deal or risk losing US support created a sense of urgency across Europe on Friday, and talks between Ukraine and US officials were hastily convened. The counter-proposals - reportedly drafted by the UK, France and Germany - excluded any recognition of Russian-held regions, raised Ukraine's permitted army size, and left the door open to Ukraine joining Nato. Russia has consistently demanded full Ukrainian withdrawal from the whole of the eastern Donbas, made up of Donetsk and Luhansk regions. It also controls Crimea and large parts of two other regions, Kherson and Zaporizhzhia. Tens of thousands of soldiers and thousands of civilians have been killed or injured, and millions of people have fled their homes, since Russia's full-scale invasion began nearly four years ago. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump wants a peace deal in Ukraine very badly. Kyiv wants peace even more, just not at any cost. That's why when the US began pushing it to agree to a deal by Thanksgiving on what looked close to surrender terms, Ukraine pushed back. It scrambled senior officials to talks in Geneva and all of Sunday we saw delegates from the US and Ukraine shuttling back and forth between the two main venues in black limousines with darkened windows. They were joined by national security advisers from Germany, France and the UK. The only time I glimpsed Andriy Yermak, heading the negotiating team from Kyiv, he looked stony-faced. No wonder: the starting proposal on the table was so skewed towards Russia's demands, the talks began with the US Secretary of State Marco Rubio having to deny it had been written by the Kremlin. But Donald Trump had been clear that Ukraine needed to sign up fast or face unspecified consequences. So Kyiv had to engage. On Sunday night, Marco Rubio declared there'd been "tremendous progress" in the talks with just a "couple of things" still outstanding. When pressed, he wouldn't be more specific, calling the situation "delicate". But a joint Ukraine-US statement says there's now a whole new deal in play, which it calls an "updated and revised framework document". We haven't seen that yet. The Financial Times newspaper quotes one of the delegates, though - Ukraine's deputy foreign minister Sergiy Kyslytsya - who talks of a new 19-point plan with "very little left" from the original draft. That new document likely incorporates at least some of the amendments proposed by the Europeans and published by Reuters news agency that point to something far more palatable for Kyiv. In that version, an automatic veto on future Ukrainian Nato membership is gone - as well as a cap on troop numbers for the country's armed forces. It says no Western troops would be deployed to Ukraine permanently, but that's not an all-out ban. On the sensitive question of territory – land Ukrainian soldiers have been fighting and dying to defend for 11 years – there would be no handover of the rest of the Donbas region to Russia for free, and Ukraine would aim to recover occupied areas through exclusively diplomatic means. That's something Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky previously accepted. The full amnesty for war crimes is deleted, too. But most critically, there's reference to security guarantees. Several officials, including the UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, have talked about Ukraine getting Article 5-style protection, meaning the US would be bound to come to its defence if Russia ever invaded again. That's the key issue which Ukraine says it can't negotiate on. We don't know how many of these European ideas have made it into the new proposal, but Germany's Chancellor Friedrich Merz calls the deal "significantly modified" – in a positive sense. So how did we get from a pro-Russian deal to this in just a day? It's hard to be sure, with US hawks like President Trump's envoy Steve Witkoff in the room. The initial Kremlin-friendly plan was rooted in Witkoff's own visit to Russian President Vladimir Putin this spring, when he returned quoting Russia's controversial narratives almost verbatim. Instead, this plan seems like something Ukraine might sign up to – eventually. Which must be why Trump has gone from berating officials in Kyiv, again, for supposedly showing him "zero gratitude", to proclaiming that "something good" may be coming. But how good? There is still no sign that Russia is ready to give up fighting unless it's forced to. "Putin is much more self-confident militarily, right now," Tatiana Stanovaya of the Carnegie Russia Eurasia Center believes. She points to a corruption scandal and political crisis in Kyiv, problems mobilising soldiers there, and military gains for Russian forces on the ground – all driving Putin's thinking. At best, some suggest Trump's demand for a deal has injected new momentum into efforts to find peace, which Ukrainians, under fire, desperately want. But it's hard to escape the sense that these days of frantic diplomacy have only brought us back to where we started "Russia's position is, 'we have laid out our demands, so do you take them or not?' Stanovaya said. "'If so, we will stop the war – if not, we'll just wait until you're ready.'" The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
One of the daughters of Jacob Zuma, South Africa's former president, has filed a criminal complaint against her sister, accusing her of recruiting men from South Africa to fight in the Russia-Ukraine war. Nkosazana Zuma-Mncube alleged that Duduzile Zuma-Sambudla, who serves as an MP, and two others tricked 17 men into fighting for Russian mercenaries. The men were told they were travelling to Russia to train as bodyguards for Jacob Zuma's political party Mkhonto Wesizwe (MK), Zuma-Mncube's statement says. The police say they are investigating the matter, while Zuma-Sambudla, aged 43, has not responded to the BBC's request for comment. South Africa's government previously said it had received distress calls from 17 citizens who had joined mercenary forces in the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The men, aged from 20 to 39, were lured to join the mercenary forces under the pretext of lucrative contracts, the government said. South Africa has an unemployment rate of more than 30%. Joblessness among young people is even higher, making them especially vulnerable for recruitment, analysts say. Zuma-Mncube said she had a "moral obligation" to file a police complaint against her younger sister. Earlier this week, international financial outlet Bloomberg reported similar allegations against Zuma-Sambudla and said some men had also been recruited from neighbouring Botswana. The allegations add to Zuma-Sambudla's legal woes - she is currently on trial over terrorism-related charges. The MP is being prosecuted over comments she made on social media four years ago during deadly protests in South Africa, following the arrest of her father. A week of anarchy in several parts of the country in July 2021, including looting and arson, left at least 300 people dead. Zuma-Sambudla has been accused of fuelling this unrest but she says the charges against her are politically motivated. Jacob Zuma was jailed for contempt of court for refusing to take part in an inquiry into allegations of corruption during his presidency that led to his sacking. He subsequently formed the MK party and led it to third place in last year's elections. The BBC has contacted MK and the Jacob Zuma Foundation for comment. Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. Cameroon's President Paul Biya, 93, won his eighth successive term last year in a disputed election. The fuel cost is nearly double what the government budgeted for putting pressure on stretched finances. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US and Ukrainian negotiators have drawn up an "updated and refined peace framework", and plan to continue work on a peace plan over the coming days, the countries announced on Sunday. A joint statement said talks on a US-backed plan in Geneva, which are now understood to have concluded, were "highly productive". US Secretary of State Marco Rubio said there had been a "tremendous amount of progress" on honing the plan, but there was "still some work to be done" before a final agreement could be put to Russia. The plan's original draft, details of which were leaked last week, was cautiously welcomed by Russia, but not by leaders in Kyiv and Europe, who saw it as too favourable to the Kremlin. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists on Monday that Moscow has not yet received any information about the outcome of the US-Ukraine talks in Geneva. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said there were "signals that President [Donald] Trump's team is hearing us". Addressing the Swedish parliament on Monday morning, Zelensky called it a "critical moment" for Ukraine. "Putin wants legal recognition for what he has stolen, to break the principle of territorial integrity and sovereignty. That's the main problem," he said, adding that the Russian president wants it not only from Ukraine "but from the whole world". He explained that Ukraine has managed to keep "sensitive points", such as the release of all Ukrainian prisoners of war, on the table during the talks as he said there is still more to do to achieve "real peace". Speaking to reporters late on Sunday, Rubio said the negotiating teams in Geneva had had a "very good day". He said the main goal had been to try to narrow "open items" from the 28-point US plan, and that the parties involved had achieved that in a "substantial way". However, America's top diplomat said any final agreement would have to be agreed by the Ukrainian and US presidents before it could be put to Russia, and that there were still some issues being negotiated. Positive accounts of the meeting came hours after Trump accused Ukraine's leaders of showing "zero gratitude" for US efforts to end the Russia-Ukraine war. The US president also pointed out that Europe - where Kyiv has some of its most loyal allies - was continuing to buy oil from Russia. Moscow relies heavily on its oil and gas exports to continue financing its war in Ukraine. European leaders have noted that progress was made in Sunday's talks but also said that more work is needed. In a post on X on Monday, Finnish President Alexander Stubb said he spoke with President Zelensky on Monday morning. "The negotiations were a step forward, but there are still major issues which remain to be resolved," Stubb said. "Any decision falling in the remit of EU or Nato will be discussed and decided by EU and Nato members in a separate track." Sir Keir Starmer has welcomed the "significant progress" during Sunday's talks, according to a spokesperson for the UK Prime Minister. "Of course, there are some outstanding issues, but as both countries have set out, intensive work on the peace plan will continue in the coming days and weeks," the spokesperson added. Separately, according to comments reported by the Reuters news agency, German Foreign Minister Johann Wadephul told Deutschlandfunk radio that the meetings were a "decisive success" for Europeans - with issues relating to Europe, and Nato, removed from the plan. "It was clear from the outset, as we have repeatedly said, that any agreement must not be reached over the heads of Europeans and Ukrainians," he added. European Council President Antonio Costa also spoke with Zelensky on Monday morning. "A united and coordinated EU position is key in ensuring a good outcome of peace negotiations - for Ukraine and for Europe," he said in a post on X. Several media outlets, including Reuters news agency, reported the text of an alternative plan to end the war drafted by Kyiv's European allies, lead by the UK, France and Germany. The BBC has not independently verified its contents and Rubio denied any knowledge of its existence. While the draft of the US-backed plan has not been published in full, major details have leaked in recent days. Controversial provisions include Ukraine agreeing to withdraw troops from parts of the eastern Donetsk region that they currently control, and international recognition of de facto Russian control of Donetsk, the neighbouring Luhansk region and the southern Crimea peninsula, which was annexed by Russia in 2014. The plan also includes freezing the borders of Ukraine's southern Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions along the current battle lines, and would see Ukraine agreeing to limit the size of its military to 600,000 personnel, down from about 880,000 now. The draft crucially includes a pledge for Ukraine not to seek membership of Nato. Instead, Kyiv would receive "reliable security guarantees", about which no details have been given. The document says "it is expected" that Russia will not invade its neighbours and that Nato will not expand further. The draft also suggests Russia will be "reintegrated into the global economy", through the lifting of sanctions and by inviting Russia to rejoin the G7 group of the world's most powerful countries - making it the G8 again. Trump previously gave Ukraine until this coming Thursday to agree to the proposals, though later said the draft did not amount to a "final offer" after Ukraine's allies voiced their concerns. And Rubio told reporters on Sunday he was "very optimistic that we're going to get there in a very reasonable period of time very soon", whether it was Thursday, other days, or Monday the following week. Before the talks began in Geneva, Rubio and the State Department insisted the widely-leaked plan had been authored by the US. That came after a bipartisan group of US senators claimed the secretary of state had told them the draft was a Russian proposal and did not represent the Trump administration's position. Rubio rebutted that account and said it had been authored by the US with "input" from Moscow and Kyiv, while a State Department spokesperson described the senators' account of their conversation with Rubio as "blatantly false". The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Talks in Geneva aimed at discussing a US-backed draft peace plan to end the war in Ukraine have concluded after a day. US and Ukrainian teams reportedly went through the 28-point proposal drafted by American and Russian officials last month. Ukraine is likely to have pushed back on some particularly contentious elements - namely those concerning territorial issues and security guarantees for Ukraine. Russia has said it has not seen any updated plan off the back of talks between the US and Ukraine. The original iteration of the plan proposed to hand over those areas of Ukraine's industrial eastern Donbas region still under Ukrainian control to the de facto control of Russian President Vladimir Putin - an unpalatable option for Ukraine. The plan also called for Kyiv to cut the size of its armed forces to 600,000 people. On the face of it, several of the plan's 28 key points could be acceptable to Ukraine. Others come across as vague and imprecise. Ukraine's sovereignty would be "confirmed" and there would be a "total and complete comprehensive non-aggression agreement between Russia, Ukraine and Europe", with robust or reliable "security guarantees" for Kyiv and a demand for snap elections in 100 days. If Russia were to invade Ukraine a "robust co-ordinated military response" is proposed along with a restoration of sanctions and a scrapping of the deal. Although elections are impossible in Ukraine as there is martial law in place, they could theoretically be held if a peace deal is signed. But on security guarantees, there is no detail on who would provide them and how robust they might be. This falls well short of a Nato-style Article Five commitment to  treat an attack on Ukraine as an attack on all. Kyiv would want more than a vague promise if it were to sign up. Among the most contentious proposals are Ukraine handing over its own unoccupied territory and cutting the size of its armed forces. "Ukrainian forces will withdraw from the part of Donetsk Oblast [region] that they currently control, and this withdrawal zone will be considered a neutral demilitarised buffer zone, internationally recognised as territory belonging to the Russian Federation. Russian forces will not enter this demilitarised zone." Ceding territory where at least a quarter of a million Ukrainians live - the Donetsk "fortress belt" cities of Slovyansk, Kramatorsk and Druzhkivka - will not be acceptable to most Ukrainians. Russia has spent well over a year trying to capture the town of Pokrovsk - Ukraine is unlikely to hand over such important strategic hubs without a fight. "The size of the Ukrainian Armed Forces will be limited to 600,000 personnel." Ukraine's military was estimated last January at about 880,000 active personnel, up from 250,000 at the start of the full-scale invasion in February 2022. While 600,000 might seem a potentially acceptable number in peacetime, that kind of limitation would infringe on Ukrainian sovereignty. It might also be too big a number for Russia to accept. "Our red lines are clear and unwavering," Ukrainian representative Khrystyna Hayovyshyn told the UN security Council: "There will never be any recognition formal or otherwise of Ukrainian territory temporarily occupied by the Russian Federation as Russian. Ukraine will not accept any limits on its rights to self defence or on the size or capabilities of our armed forces." The draft also proposes that "Crimea, Luhansk and Donetsk will be recognised as de facto Russian, including by the United States". In other words Ukraine and other countries would not need to recognise Russian control by law. That could enable Kyiv to accept such phrasing, as it would not impinge on Ukraine's constitution that says its borders are " indivisible and inviolable". Elsewhere, in the southern regions of Kherson and Zaporizhzia, the front lines would be frozen and Russia would relinquish areas it has occupied elsewhere in Ukraine - a reference to the north-eastern Kharkiv and Sumy regions, as well the Mykolaiv region in the south. On Monday Zelensky said allowing Moscow to seize land by force would set a dangerous precedent. Giving legal recognition to the territories "stolen" by Russia would "break the principle of territorial integrity and sovereignty", he said. The draft proposes significant commitments on Ukraine's strategic future: "Ukraine agrees to enshrine in its constitution that it will not join Nato and Nato agrees to include in its statutes a provision that Ukraine will not be admitted in the future." "Ukraine is eligible for EU membership and will get short-term preferred market access to the European market while this issue is being evaluated." There is little chance of Ukraine joining Nato any time soon and Russia has in recent months softened its stance on Ukraine's candidacy for EU membership. The document appears to offer Kyiv access to EU markets while ignoring the views of 27 European countries. Joining both the EU and Nato are part of Ukraine's constitution and another of Khrystyna Hayovyshyn's red lines at the UN was: "Nor will we tolerate any infringement on our sovereignty including our sovereign right to choose the alliances we want to join." Other draft proposals are that Nato agrees not to station troops in Ukraine and that European fighter jets will be stationed in neighbouring Poland. Kyiv would also have to commit to being a "non-nuclear state". That appears to reject the West's Coalition of the Willing's plans led by the UK and France to help police any future deal. Several points refer to Russia being brought back from isolation with "Russia to be re-integrated into the global economy" and invited back into the G8 group of powers. That seems a long way off for now, with Putin under an arrest warrant from the International Criminal Court. Russia was thrown out of the G7 after it seized and then annexed Crimea in 2014 and Trump tried to bring Putin back into the fold six years later. If the UK, Canada, France, Germany, Italy and Japan were reluctant before the full-scale invasion, there's even less chance of that happening now. The draft proposes that $100bn (€87bn; £76bn) of frozen Russian assets should be invested "in US-led efforts to rebuild and invest in Ukraine", with the US receiving 50% of the profits and Europe adding $100bn in investment for reconstruction. This is reminiscent of the US minerals deal with Ukraine earlier this year, extracting an American price for involvement, and it also leaves the European Union with nothing but hefty bills. The sums it mentions may not be sufficient, either: earlier this year the total cost of reconstruction in Ukraine was put at $524bn. Some €200bn in Russia frozen assets are largely held by Euroclear in Belgium, and the European Union is currently working on a plan to use the money to fund Kyiv financially and militarily. The rest of those frozen assets would go to a "US-Russian investment vehicle", under the draft, so Russia would see some of its money come back, but again there would be a financial benefit for the US. Several commentators have pointed out that the plan does not require weapons limitations on Ukraine's military or its arms industry, even though there is a provision saying: If Ukraine fires a missile at Moscow or St Petersburg then the security guarantee will be considered null and void. But it does not place an restriction on the long-range weapons Ukraine has been developing - such as its Flamingo and Long Neptune missiles. "There's still some work to be done," US Secretary of State Marco Rubio admitted late on Sunday, after his team's crisis talks with Ukrainian and European negotiating delegations in Geneva, Switzerland. "But we are much further ahead today at this time than we were when we began this morning and where we were a week ago, for certain," America's top diplomat added. He refused to go in details on what main sticking points remained. Rubio also said that any new plan had to be agreed with Russia, which has not publicly commented on the latest developments. Meanwhile, several media outlets reported and published what they said was an alternative plan from Ukraine's European allies led by the UK, France and Germany. But Rubio said he was "unaware" of any European counter-proposals to the US plan. The US was initially keen to press ahead fast under an "aggressive timeline" with its proposals, giving Ukraine until 27 November to agree to it. However, Trump later said it was not his "final offer" for Kyiv, after Ukrainian allies voiced concerns over the plan. Rubio said a deal may be reached by Thanksgiving, or before or even after the US holiday. Russian special envoy Kirill Dmitriev is known to have spent as long as three days with Trump's special envoy Steve Witkoff discussing this plan, raising suggestions of a stitched-up deal to suit Moscow. A group of US senators have said they were told by Rubio that the plan was not an American proposal - that it represented the Russian position and was leaked by a representative for Moscow. This contradicts the position of the White House, which says the plan has been endorsed by President Donald Trump, having been drawn up by his officials. Rubio later said the peace proposal had been "authored by the US". "It is offered as a strong framework for ongoing negotiations. It is based on input from the Russian side. But it is also based on previous and ongoing input from Ukraine." Russia's response has so far been cautious but Putin has said it could be the "basis" for a peace settlement. The handover of Ukrainian territory to Russia, even in a demilitarised zone, is the biggest sign of a slant towards Russia's narrative, but freezing the front lines in the south could prove difficult for the Kremlin which has annexed both Kherson and Zaporizhzhia in its constitution. One of the proposals is for the lifting of sanctions to be "agreed upon in stages and on a case-by-case basis" - which Moscow will probably see as far too slow. However, a plan for a "full amnesty" for all parties will go down well in Moscow and very badly in Kyiv and European capitals. Commentators have pointed out that while there do appear to be major concessions to Putin, some of the requirements for Nato might be too vague for Kremlin tastes. Russia has also consistently demanded that a peace plan would need to eliminate what it sees as "the root causes" of the war. One of those root causes is halting Nato expansion in Eastern Europe, which the draft appears to deal with. Some of the other 28 points of the draft also nod to Russia's claims of discrimination against Ukraine's Russian-speaking population without explicitly endorsing them. One point is explicit but even-handed: "Both countries will agree to abolish all discriminatory measures and guarantee the rights of Ukrainian and Russian media and education." Another apparent attempt to be even-handed comes from a proposal to distribute electricity generated by the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant - the biggest in Europe - "equally between Russia and Ukraine". A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's frontline soldiers have reacted to draft US peace proposals with a mixture of defiance, anger and resignation. The BBC spoke to half a dozen who sent us their views via social media and email in response to the original US plan – details of which were leaked last week. Since then, American and Ukrainian negotiators have been working on changes to the proposals – and are set to continue talks about the "peace framework". Of the original US plan, Yaroslav, in eastern Ukraine, says it "sucks… no one will support it" while an army medic with the call sign Shtutser dismissed it as an "absolutely disgraceful draft of a peace plan, unworthy of our attention". But one soldier with the call sign Snake told us "it's time to agree at least on something". This is what the soldiers who spoke to the BBC had to say about some of the key points in the original US draft peace plan. The US put forward a draft peace proposal at a time when Russia is making significant advances on the battlefield. Over the past month alone Ukraine has lost a further 450 sq km to Russia. Kyiv still controls around 15% of the Donbas region, the eastern part of Ukraine encompassing the Luhansk and Donetsk oblasts which is a key war goal for Russia. But the original US plan proposes that Ukraine give up the entire region - even parts it has successfully defended for nearly four years of full-scale war. "Let them take it," Snake told the BBC. "There's practically no one left in the cities and villages… We're not fighting for the people but for the land, while losing more people." Andrii, an officer in Ukraine's general staff, says that what is being proposed for Luhansk and Donetsk is "painful and difficult" but he suggests the country may have no other choice. Ukraine has been defending the region since 2014, when Russia annexed Crimea and its proxy forces seized parts of the Donbas. "We may not want to give it up, but we won't be able to hold it by military force and resources," Andrii says. Eastern Ukraine has been the scene of the heaviest fighting in this war, and Ukraine has lost tens of thousands of troops defending it. Matros, who has been fighting since 2018, told us giving up the Donbas would "nullify everything - all the efforts of the armed forces". "It will disregard the lives of fallen soldiers and civilians," he said. The US draft peace plan envisages limiting the size of Ukraine's armed forces to 600,000. That is still significantly more than before the full-scale invasion when its full-time strength was around 250,000, but smaller than its current size. The most recent estimates suggest Ukraine's military strength is more than 800,000. Snake believes the country will need many of those currently in uniform to help rebuild Ukraine when the war ends. "What's the point of having so many people in the army if there will be security guarantees?" he asks. Andrii the staff officer agrees. "If there are security guarantees, then of course there's no point in keeping such a large army," he says. "People are tired and want to return to their families. There's no reason to keep them in a peacetime army after the war." He believes Ukraine's economy would be unable to sustain such large armed forces in peacetime. Army medic Shtutser does not agree, saying that Ukraine's army "is the only thing separating us from defeat and enslavement" while Matros calls the proposal to reduce the size of the armed forces "absurd and manipulative". Ukraine's willingness to agree to the proposals will depend on its future security guarantees. The US draft plan rules out Ukraine's membership of Nato, but not of the European Union. There is a promise of US security guarantees if Russia were to attack again, though no further detail on the measure of that support. The draft also rules out the presence of Nato forces in Ukraine, if there is a deal. But Yevhen, a drone operator in eastern Ukraine, thinks the presence of foreign troops in the country is an important security guarantee. The UK and France have been leading efforts to provide a "reassurance force" in the event of a ceasefire, through a "Coalition of the Willing". "I like the UK's plan to put troops into Ukraine [through this coalition]," he says. "This is the only plan that will help us win, to introduce allied troops." But staff officer Andrii does not believe Europe can provide much in the way of security guarantees. "Europe has turned out to be completely spineless and divided," he says. "It seems all hope rests only on the United States." However, other soldiers suggest there is no great faith in the US either. "US security guarantees under its current government are not guarantees at all," says Schtutser. The US draft plan sets out a proposal for Ukraine to hold fresh elections within 100 days of the end of the war. Under Ukraine's constitution, elections cannot be held during in time of war. But there are signs of growing frustration with the current government which is facing serious allegations of corruption. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine (NABU) is currently investigating allegations of individuals profiting from contracts in the energy sector to the tune of $100m (£76m). President Volodymyr Zelensky has already been forced to sack two of his ministers, both of whom deny the allegations. A former deputy prime minister and business partner are also under investigation. The scandal has led to political infighting and has dominated the headlines here. It is a live topic on the front too. Among those soldiers we spoke to there is support for fresh elections. "Of course they are needed – those in power right now are not trusted," says Snake. Another soldier, Marin, is also in favour of elections, saying that the current government "needs to be cleansed of corruption", while Andrii agrees that a "complete reset of government is needed" through fresh elections, though not right away. Fresh elections may well be the least controversial proposal in the plan. But overall there are serious misgivings about the US proposals. Yaroslav tells us it simply "won't work" while Oleksandr dismisses it with an expletive. The one clear message from those we talked to is that many are tired of fighting. Andrii has concerns about some of the proposals but concludes: "If it stops the war, then it works for me." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"The toy is delivered," a Ukrainian soldier whispers into the radio. In the dead of night, he and his partner move quickly to roll out their cargo from a van. Speed is crucial as they are within the range of deadly Russian drones. The fifth brigade's new "toy" is an unmanned ground vehicle (UGV), a robot that provides a lifeline for Ukrainian troops at the front in Pokrovsk and Myrnograd, a strategic hub in eastern Ukraine. Russian forces are relentlessly trying to cut off Ukraine's supply routes in the area. Without fresh food and ammunition, Ukraine's frontline soldiers would face a choice of either surrender or a costly retreat. Kyiv has sent special forces, elite assault units and drone groups to reinforce its troops in and around Pokrovsk, but Russia's grip on routes into the city means going in with armoured vehicles would bring almost certain death. Transporting heavy supplies on foot would be just as dangerous. This is where the robot, also known as a land drone, comes in place of traditional troop deployments. The battle of Pokrovsk will probably go down in history as the first in which unmanned ground vehicles were used on a mass scale, largely to deliver supplies and evacuate wounded. The robot is small enough to squeeze into a bicycle lane and looks like a mini tank without a turret. UGVs are difficult to spot, they are harder to jam than an aerial drone and, most importantly, soldiers can operate them remotely from a safer location. They save soldiers' lives and are the future of the army, according to Ihor, the head of unmanned systems for the 7th Corps of the Ukrainian army. About 90% of all supplies for Pokrovsk frontline are now delivered by UGVs, he says. Meanwhile, Russian forces are trying to capture the city by choking the supply chains and relentlessly launching remote-controlled drones to target anything that moves in what is widely called "the kill-zone". This 30km-wide stretch of territory along the frontline is within reach of drones from both sides. Constant aerial reconnaissance means any movement in the kill-zone is quickly detected and attacked, by drones as well as conventional weapons such as artillery, mortar rounds and aerial bombs. It's a situation that military doctor Vitsik and his land drone operator Auditor know only too well. These are their call signs, not their real names. When they tried to evacuate wounded Ukrainian soldiers from Pokrovsk last month they were quickly spotted and had only seconds to rush to a nearby house to escape the buzz of Russian drones. "One drone after another attacked us," Vitsik recalls. "As soon as the drone hit the ground and exploded, immediately the next one appeared. They also fired from artillery and mortars trying to kill us." The walls Vitsik and Auditor hid behind shook with each explosion. The barrage lasted for 59 minutes and they eventually slipped into a neighbouring building and escaped. Inside Pokrovsk the drone threat from above is ever present. "We run from one bush to another, from one house to another, from one street to another," says Vitsik. Thanks to those "first-person view" drones, Russian troops are close to cutting off all routes leading to Pokrovsk. They claim to have surrounded the entire area, but Kyiv has repeatedly denied that. The head of Ukraine's HUR intelligence agency, Kyrylo Budanov, has told local media the situation in Pokrovsk is "extremely difficult" but Ukraine is "still holding on there". And yet moving troops into and around the city is extremely dangerous and Ukrainian forces have tried to limit rotating people in and out due to the high risks. As a result, soldiers remain in frontline positions for weeks, sometimes even months. It has made delivering supplies an even more pressing task, and that means the demand for unmanned ground vehicles is growing. A single unit of the 5th brigade can carry out several logistical missions with UGVs in one day. Each assignment starts in an old, shabby garage and the mission I watch is delivering water, ammunition and fuel to drone pilots. Supplies are loaded on a land drone called Termit, capable of carrying about 200kg. The operator drives it by remote control into the back of a van which takes it closer to the frontline to preserve its battery. When it is dark, two soldiers jump out of the van and roll out the UGV. One of them informs the control room via radio that the land drone has been offloaded. Within seconds the operator several kilometres away confirms he is connected to the machine and Termit heads off to its destination. Machines like Termit have been used by some Ukrainian brigades since last year but they have become increasingly popular in recent months. At a workshop for the 79th brigade, engineers who previously made only aerial remote-controlled drones are now tasked with upgrading unmanned ground vehicles for use in combat zones. They apply camouflage, weld new platforms and add hardware for extra communication. But even with these improvements, UGVs are still vulnerable to drone attacks. "No matter how well it is concealed, no matter what connection you use and how quickly it moves", the machine can still be detected and destroyed, says a UGV operator with the call sign "Lawyer". During one mission to evacuate a wounded soldier from Pokrovsk, his unmanned vehicle hit a landmine damaging its tracks. Another land drone was sent on a rescue mission from a different unit, but it was destroyed too. Lawyer still does not know if the wounded soldier made it out alive. On average just one out of three UGVs manages to reach the city, says Ihor, from the unmanned systems department of the 7th Corps. While the majority of the small robots won't make it, the troops on the frontline are reliant on those that do. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Donald Trump has said a US plan to end the Russia-Ukraine war is not his "final offer" for Kyiv, after Ukrainian allies voiced concerns over proposals. Earlier on Saturday, leaders from Europe, Canada and Japan said the plan had elements "essential for a just and lasting peace", but would "require additional work", citing concerns over border changes and caps on Ukraine's army. On Sunday, security officials from Britain, France, Germany, the US and Ukraine will meet in Geneva, Switzerland. President Volodymyr Zelensky earlier warned Ukraine faced "one of the most difficult moments in our history" over US pressure to accept the plan seen as favourable to Moscow. Trump has given Ukraine until 27 November to accept the 28-point plan, while Russia's President Vladimir Putin said it could be the "basis" for a settlement. When asked on Saturday whether the current draft plan was his final offer for Ukraine, Trump told reporters at the White House: "No, not my final offer." "One way or another we have to get it [the war] ended, so we're working on it," he added. US Secretary of State Marco Rubio and special envoy Steve Witkoff will be among those taking part in talks in Geneva on Sunday. National Security Adviser Jonathan Powell will attend on the UK's behalf. Saturday's joint statement at the G20 summit in South Africa was signed by the leaders of Canada, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, the UK, Germany and Norway. Two top EU officials were also among the signatories. The statement said: "We believe therefore that the draft is a basis which will require additional work. We are ready to engage in order to ensure that a future peace is sustainable. We are clear on the principle that borders must not be changed by force. "We are also concerned by the proposed limitations on Ukraine's armed forces, which would leave Ukraine vulnerable to future attack." It added: "The implementation of elements relating to the European Union and relating to Nato would need the consent of EU and Nato members respectively". UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, who is at the G20 summit in Johannesburg, spoke to Zelensky on the phone on Saturday, followed by a call with Trump. On the Trump call, a Downing Street spokesman said Sir Keir "relayed the discussions that have been taking place between Coalition of the Willing partners [Ukraine's allies] in attendance at the G20 summit today". They added: "The leaders agreed their teams would work together on the 28-point US peace proposal in Geneva tomorrow. They agreed to speak again tomorrow." Sir Keir earlier said he was concerned about proposed caps on Ukraine's military in the US plan, saying "it's fundamental that Ukraine has to be able to defend itself if there's a ceasefire". The widely leaked US peace plan proposes Ukrainian troops withdraw from the part of the eastern Donetsk region that they currently control, and de facto Russian control of Donetsk, as well as the neighbouring Luhansk region and the southern Crimea peninsula annexed by Russia in 2014. The plan also includes freezing the borders of Ukraine's southern Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions along the current battle lines. Both regions are partially occupied by Russia. The US draft would also limit Ukraine's military to 600,000 personnel, with European fighter jets stationed in neighbouring Poland. Kyiv would receive "reliable security guarantees", the plan says, although no details have been given. The document says "it is expected" that Russia will not invade its neighbours and Nato will not expand further. The plan also suggests Russia will be "reintegrated into the global economy", through the lifting of sanctions and by inviting Russia to rejoin the G7 group of the world's most powerful countries - making it the G8 again. On Friday, Trump said Zelensky would "have to like" the US proposals, adding otherwise Ukraine and Russia would continue fighting. Earlier in the day, the Ukrainian leader addressed the nation with a stark warning that the country "might face a very difficult choice: either losing dignity, or risk losing a key partner". "Today is one of the most difficult moments in our history," Zelensky added, pledging to work "constructively" with the Americans on the plan. On Saturday, Zelensky announced that his head of office Andriy Yermak would lead Ukraine's negotiating team for future talks on a peace deal, including any that may involve Russia. "Our representatives know how to defend Ukraine's national interests and exactly what must be done to prevent Russia from launching a third invasion, another strike against Ukraine," the president said in a video statement posted on social media. Kyiv is critically dependent on deliveries of US-made advanced weaponry, including air defence systems to repel deadly Russian air assaults, as well as intelligence provided by Washington. Putin on Friday confirmed Moscow had received the US plan - but said it had not been discussed with the Kremlin in detail. He added Moscow was willing to "show flexibility" - but was also prepared to fight on. Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. In recent months, Russian troops have been slowly advancing in Ukraine's south-eastern region - despite reported heavy combat casualties. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An art exhibition showcasing the "hopes and dreams" of Ukrainian children has opened. "Faces of the Ukrainian Dream" at Northampton Central Library features drawings and stories created by children who have been affected by the Russian invasion of their country. It was organised by the Northampton branch of the Association of Ukrainians in Great Britain as part of an international project to highlight stories of "loss, courage and hope". Solomiia Blaghitko, one of the event organisers, said the display, which included a film was "all about the children". The opening of the exhibition showcased the musical talents of 14-year-old Kvitka, who sang two songs "related to Ukrainian children". "The second song I sang is called Bird of Prey and it's about freedom and life," she said. "I didn't get the life that I wanted, because before the war I had everything. I had amazing friends, my favourite school and my lovely home. "But after the war started, I was forced to move to a different country, I lost contact with all my friends, and I just miss my home. "In the future, I just want to go home, see my friends, be with my dog, be with my family and just enjoy my life." Kvitka's younger brother Luka, nine, has starred in a movie called Ivanko's Childhood which is being screened, and said it was "super fun" to be a part of it. "There was a lot of nice people; I made a lot of friends and it was just awesome," he said. "It's really cool to see people watch my film and congratulate me after; I just want to say 'follow your dreams'." Ms Blaghitko added: "The main thing we want to present here is drawings from Ukrainian children, because now every Ukrainian child is a child of war, unfortunately. "They describe their dreams, hopes and feelings; these children are very honoured to present this exhibition [thousands of kilometres] from their homes." The exhibition opening coincided with World Children's Day and it runs until Monday, 24 November. Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. The church art by a Jewish refugee was partly painted over by "a well-meaning priest" in the 1980s. Margot Lord, from Haslemere, will be able to choose an art piece worth £2,500 as part of her win. John Paul-Stonard says the discovery of the artist's practice work for The Cornfield is "significant". Scott Duffin puts his Coventry memorabilia trove on public display, after five years of collecting. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has warned that Kyiv risks losing US support over a White House plan on how to end the war with Russia. Addressing the nation on Friday, Zelensky said Ukraine "might face a very difficult choice: either losing dignity, or risk losing a key partner", adding that "today is one of the most difficult moments in our history". The widely leaked US peace plan includes proposals that Kyiv had previously ruled out: ceding eastern areas it now controls, significantly cutting its army size, and pledging not to join Nato. These provisions are seen as heavily slanted towards Russia, whose President Vladimir Putin said the plan could be a "basis" for peace settlement. At Friday's meeting with his security cabinet, Putin said Moscow had received the plan, which had not been discussed with the Kremlin in detail. He said Russia was willing to "show flexibility" but was also prepared to fight on. Later in the day, US President Donald Trump said Zelensky would "have to like" the plan, adding that otherwise Ukraine and Russia would continue fighting. Ukraine is critically dependent on deliveries of US-made advanced weaponry, including air defence systems to repel deadly Russian air assaults, as well as intelligence provided by Washington. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. In his 10-minute address in front of the presidential office in Kyiv, Zelensky warned that Ukraine would face "a lot of pressure... to weaken us, to divide us", adding that "the enemy is not sleeping". Urging Ukrainians to stay united, he stressed that the country's "national interest must be taken into account". "We're not making loud statements," he went on, "we'll be calmly working with America and all the partners... offering alternatives" to the proposed peace plan. Zelensky also said he had been reassured of continuous support during a phone call with UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz. Sir Keir said late on Friday that Ukraine's allies remained committed to securing "a just and lasting peace once and for all". Ahead of the G20 summit, which begins on Saturday in South Africa, the prime minister said he and other world leaders would "discuss the current proposal on the table, and in support of President Trump's push for peace, look at how we can strengthen this plan for the next phase of negotiations". Trump is not attending the gathering over widely discredited claims that white people are being persecuted in the country. Separately, Zelensky said he had spoken "for almost an hour" with US Vice-President JD Vance and Army Secretary Dan Driscoll, adding that Ukraine "always respected" Trump's efforts to end the war. In Washington, Trump warned that Ukraine would lose more territory to Russia "in a short amount of time". He said it was "appropriate" to give Ukraine until 27 November - Thanksgiving in the US - to agree to the peace deal, but added deadlines could be extended if things were "going well". Speaking at the White House on Friday, the US president said "we think we have a way of getting peace", adding that Zelensky "is going to have to approve it". Washington has been pressing Kyiv to quickly accept the plan, and sent senior Pentagon officials to the Ukrainian capital earlier this week. On Thursday, Putin sounded determined to continue the war despite reported heavy Russian combat casualties. "We have our tasks, our goals," the Kremlin leader, wearing a military uniform, told his army commanders. "The chief one is the unconditional achievement of the aims of the special military operation [full-scale war]." The 28-point US peace plan emerged as Russia claims small territorial gains in south-eastern Ukraine, while Zelensky faces a domestic crisis implicating top officials in a $100m (£76m) corruption scandal. The White House has pushed back on claims that Ukraine was frozen out of the drafting of the proposal, following meetings between US special envoy Steve Witkoff and Russian counterpart Kirill Dmitriev. An unnamed US official told CBS News, the BBC's US partner, that the plan was drawn up "immediately" following discussions with Ukraine's top security official Rustem Umerov, who agreed to the majority of it. Umerov is said to have made several modifications before he presented it to Zelensky. The leaked draft proposes Ukrainian troops' withdrawal from the part of the eastern Donetsk region that they currently control, and de facto Russian control of Donetsk, as well as the neighbouring Luhansk region and the southern Crimea peninsula annexed by Russia in 2014. The plan also includes freezing the borders of Ukraine's southern Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions along the current battle lines. Both regions are partially occupied by Russia. The US plan also limits Ukraine's military to 600,000 personnel, with European fighter jets stationed in neighbouring Poland. Kyiv would receive "reliable security guarantees", the plan says, although no details have been given. The document says "it is expected" that Russia will not invade its neighbours and that Nato will not expand further. The draft also suggests Russia will be "reintegrated into the global economy", through the lifting of sanctions and by inviting Russia to rejoin the G7 group of the world's most powerful countries - making it the G8 again. Ukrainians both under and free of Russian occupation struck a defiant tone in reaction to news of the US proposal. In Kyiv, the widow of a Ukrainian soldier told the BBC: "This is not a peace plan, it is a plan to continue the war." Another person speaking from one of the occupied territories in Ukraine told the BBC: "I'm trying to keep my sanity here in the conditions of constant propaganda that Ukraine has forgotten us. I hope they will not sign this." Russia currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory and its troops have been making slow advances along the vast front line, despite reported heavy losses. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
On Thursday, a US Pentagon delegation was in Kyiv. They were talking to President Zelensky about a draft plan to end the war in Ukraine. The same day, on Russian state TV, President Putin was in military fatigues. He was talking to his army chiefs about fighting on. "We have our tasks, our goals," the Kremlin leader declared. "The chief one is the unconditional achievement of the aims of the special military operation." The Izvestia newspaper called President Putin's visit to a command post "a signal to America that he's prepared to negotiate on Ukraine, on Russia's terms". Which brings us back to the peace plan. On Friday night, President Putin said he had seen the US settlement plan for Ukraine. Addressing a meeting of the Russian security council in Moscow, he described the American proposals as a "modernised" version of the plan discussed with Trump at the Alaska summit between the leaders in August. President Putin said he thought the plans could form the basis of final peace settlement. The 28-point proposal, which has been widely leaked and reported on, appeared after a visit to America by President Putin's envoy Kirill Dmitriev. He took part in three days of discussions in Miami with President Trump's special envoy Steve Witkoff. According to drafts of the peace proposal, Ukraine would cede to Russia parts of the Donbass still under Kyiv's control; the Ukrainian armed forces would be reduced in size and Ukraine would vow not to join Nato. "The Russian military's effective work should convince Zelensky and his regime that it's better to strike a deal and do it now," President Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov previously told journalists on a Kremlin conference call. A peace proposal does not automatically mean peace. Pro-Kremlin commentators insist that, deal or no deal, Russia will prevail. "Everyone thought that the idea of a peace deal had sunk in a swamp," wrote Russian news outlet Moskovsky Komsomolets. "But suddenly, a rocket has shot out of this bog with a new, or rather an 'old new' peace plan, with something of the Alaska summit about it. It shot out like a jack in the box. "How long and how far will this missile fly? Will it crash, sabotaged by Europe and Kyiv? Even if the launch is a false start, it's unlikely to change the general trend. The balance of power is shifting in Russia's favour." But after nearly four years of war Russia is under pressure, too. Since its full-scale invasion of Ukraine, not only has Russian's army suffered huge losses on the battlefield, but back home the economy is faltering. Russia's budget deficit is growing, revenues from oil and gas falling. "Russia's industry is somewhere between stagnation and decline," declared the broadsheet Nezavisimaya Gazeta this week. It's unclear, though, whether economic pressures will change President Putin's calculations and convince him that now is the moment to end his so-called special operation: even on terms that many believe benefit Moscow. Some elements of the peace plan haven't gone down well in Russia. Some reports suggest that Ukraine could be offered security guarantees modelled on Nato's Article 5. That might commit Western allies to treat any future Russian attack on Ukraine as an attack on the transatlantic community as a whole and trigger a combined military response. "This is, in effect, Ukraine in Nato," wrote Moskovsky Komsomolets, "only without the deployment of bases and weapons on its territory." The full details of the peace plan have yet to be confirmed. We may be entering another period of intense diplomacy. For now, though, Russia's war on Ukraine continues. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia has said it is yet to receive anything official from the US on its peace plan, after Ukraine's Volodymr Zelensky said he was ready to work with the Trump administration on its "vision" to bring an end to the war. The widely leaked US plan includes proposals that Kyiv had previously ruled out, such as ceding areas of the eastern Donetsk region that it still controls, reducing its army in size, and pledging not to join Nato. These provisions come across as heavily slanted towards Moscow and received a carefully worded response from Zelensky's office on Thursday. Meanwhile, Russian strikes continue with six people killed overnight - five in the southern Zaporizhzhia region and one in the eastern Dnipropetrovsk region. The draft plan has emerged as Russia claims small territorial gains in eastern Ukraine, while Zelensky faces a domestic crisis implicating top officials in a $100m (£76m) corruption scandal. The White House has pushed back on claims that Ukraine was frozen out of the drafting of the proposal, following meetings between US special envoy Steve Witkoff and Russian counterpart Kirill Dmitriev. An unnamed US official told CBS News, the BBC's US partner, that the plan was drawn up "immediately" following discussions with Rustem Umerov, one of the most senior members of Zelensky's administration, who agreed to the majority of it. Umerov is said to have made several modifications before he presented it to Zelensky. Umerov wrote on Telegram that he did not provide any assessments or approvals of the plan, adding that Ukraine was still "carefully considering our partners' proposals". Zelensky has been careful not to publicly criticise or reject the plan, saying he "appreciated the efforts of President Trump and his team to return security to Europe" – perhaps a way to keep Donald Trump onside despite his administration's apparent soft approach to Russia. His office said the plan "in the American side's assessment, could help reinvigorate diplomacy". Zelensky said that he would discuss the proposals with Trump in the coming days. Meanwhile, Kremlin spokesperson Dmitri Peskov said: "We are seeing some new elements, but officially we haven't received anything. There has been no substantive discussion of those points." He added that Russia remained "completely open to peace talks". Russia has long maintained that any deal would have to address the "root causes of the conflict" - a phrase Moscow has used as shorthand for a series of maximalist demands which, to Ukraine, are tantamount to surrender. Trump has become increasingly frustrated with negotiations with Moscow, culminating in him imposing fresh sanctions on Russia's two biggest oil producers which came into force on Friday. Moscow currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory, and Russian troops have been making slow advances along the vast front line - despite reported huge combat casualties. Kyiv and its European allies have long pushed for a "just and lasting" peace in Ukraine that would ensure no more of its territory is taken by Russia. However, when asked if Europe was involved in the process of drafting the plan, EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas said: "Not that I know of." She added: "For any plan to work, it needs Ukrainians and Europeans onboard." German Foreign Minister Johann Wadephul said the draft document was not fully fledged, describing it instead as a "list of topics and options". UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Friedrich Merz have discussed the plan with Zelensky. The leaked draft proposes limiting Ukraine's military limited to 600,000 personnel, with European fighter jets stationed in neighbouring Poland, as well as plans for Ukraine to forgo many of its weapons. Kyiv would receive "reliable security guarantees", although no details have been given. The document says "it is expected" that Russia will not invade its neighbours and that Nato will not expand further. The draft also suggests Russia will be "reintegrated into the global economy", through the lifting of sanctions and by inviting Russia to rejoin the G7 group of the world's most powerful countries - making it the G8 again. Ukrainians both under and free of Russian occupation struck a defiant tone in reaction to news of the US proposal. In Kyiv, the widow of a Ukrainian soldier told the BBC: "This is not a peace plan, it is a plan to continue the war." Another person speaking from one of the occupied territories in Ukraine told the BBC: "I'm trying to keep my sanity here in the conditions of constant propaganda that Ukraine has forgotten us. I hope they will not sign this." Meanwhile, a soldier in Zaporizhzhia, where several buildings were damaged in deadly overnight strikes, said that if Ukraine did not receive support to end the war then it was up to Europe to help out. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has been careful not to criticise or reject a US draft peace deal to end the Ukraine war - even though it appears to heavily reflect many of Moscow's demands. On Thursday, the White House pushed back on claims Ukraine was not involved in the drafting of the plan, which emerged after meetings between the US and Russia. In his nightly address, Zelensky said Ukraine needed peace and would engage in diplomacy and issue no rash statements. He said Ukraine was "ready for constructive, honest and efficient work". But there is deep concern about some of the reported proposals, including giving up the entire Donbas region, reducing the size of Ukraine's military, and ruling out the presence of international troops in the country - concessions which Ukraine has rejected in the past. Ukrainian MP Yaroslav Yurchyshyn told the Kyiv Independent that Washington wanted a "quick peace at the expense of one side, which they consider weaker". Recent events may have further weakened Ukraine's position. Russia has made further advances in the east of the country. Moscow's long-range strikes on Ukraine's grid has left most of the country facing power cuts. Allegations of serious corruption in Ukraine's government have also led to political infighting and diverted attention from the war. All these issues are impossible to ignore in both Washington and Moscow. US Secretary of State Marco Rubio has said that peace will require difficult decisions on both sides. A draft published in the media does include a promise of "reliable security guarantees" for Ukraine. It's believed to suggest some frozen Russian assets should be used to help rebuild Ukraine. While the draft rules out Ukraine's membership of the Nato military alliance, it keeps the door open for its membership of the European Union. Europe itself appears to have had little say over the drafting of this plan. There's no mention of the efforts led by the UK and France to provide an international reassurance force in Ukraine, should there be a ceasefire. The draft explicitly rules out the presence of foreign troops. Europe wants its voice heard. Pressure from European allies could still help Zelensky alter the draft proposals. But there may not be much time. US officials who presented the plan, approved by US President Donald Trump, are said to be working to an aggressive timetable - weeks, not months. They're expected to travel to Moscow soon. Any hopes of getting Russian President Vladimir Putin and Zelensky in the same room to negotiate appears to have been abandoned. Trump, who's often claimed he can quickly end the war, seems to be running out of patience. He just wants the two sides to sign up to a deal. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says he is ready to work with the US on "their vision" for ending the war with Russia. Under the widely leaked plan, Kyiv would cede significant areas of the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine that it still controls, cut the size of its army, and pledge not to join Nato - proposals it has previously ruled out. The White House has pushed back on claims that Ukraine was not involved in the drafting of the plan, which emerged following meetings between US special envoy Steve Witkoff and and Russian counterpart Kirill Dmitriev. Provisions in the draft plan come across as heavily slanted towards Moscow - and it received a carefully diplomatic response from Kyiv. Ukraine has relied heavily on US military support since the start of Russia's full-scale invasion in February 2022, but President Donald Trump has shifted the US position so that further aid is funded by its Nato allies and securing a peace deal has become a priority. The draft Witkoff-Dmitriev plan emerged as Russia claimed small territorial gains in eastern Ukraine and Zelensky faced a domestic crisis implicating top officials in a $100m (£76) million corruption scandal. In his nightly address, the Ukrainian leader said US military officials in Kyiv had  "presented its proposals, the points of a plan to end the war - their vision". "From the first days of the war, we have upheld one very simple position: Ukraine needs peace. A real peace - one that will not be broken by a third invasion." Kyiv and its European allies have long supported the idea of a "just and lasting" peace that would ensure no more of Ukraine is taken by Russia. Moscow has already annexed Ukraine's Crimean peninsula as well as four regions it partly occupies through the current, full-scale invasion. However, European leaders have been left out of the US-Russia plan and German Foreign Minister Johann Wadephul said from his perspective it was not yet a fully fledged plan but rather "a list of topics and options", citing remarks by US Secretary of State Marco Rubio. The leaked draft proposes limiting Ukraine's military limited to 600,000 personnel, with European fighter jets stationed in neighbouring Poland. Kyiv would receive "reliable security guarantees", although details are not given. "It is expected" that Russia will not invade its neighbours and that Nato will not expand further. The draft also suggests Russia will be "reintegrated into the global economy", through the lifting of sanctions and by inviting Russia to rejoin the G7 group of the world's most powerful countries - making it the G8 again. Zelensky said he was set to speak to Trump in the coming days about the proposals, which also include plans for Ukraine to forgo many of its weapons. White House Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt rejected suggestions that the proposals would constitute major concessions from Ukraine - and that Ukraine had been frozen out, saying the US had engaged "equally with both sides". Witkoff and Rubio had been working on a proposal quietly for about a month, and had engaged both sides "to understand what these countries would commit to in order to see a lasting and durable peace", she said. "It's a good plan for both," Leavitt added, without providing further details. "We believe that it should be acceptable to both sides. And we're working very hard to get it done." An unnamed senior US official told CBS News, the BBC's US partner, that the plan "was drawn up immediately following discussions with one of the most senior members of President Zelensky's administration, Rustem Umerov, who agreed to the majority of the plan, after making several modifications, and presented it to President Zelensky". One Ukrainian MP told the BBC that Kyiv had not been involved in initial discussions, but brought in later on. Zelensky's office issued a carefully worded statement earlier on Thursday, saying the plan "in the American side's assessment, could help reinvigorate diplomacy". In August Trump came away from a face-to-face meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Alaska empty-handed. The US president became increasingly frustrated with negotiations with Moscow, culminating in Trump imposing fresh sanctions on Russia's two biggest oil producers which come into force on Friday. Zelensky has been careful not to publicly criticise or reject the plan, saying he "appreciated the efforts of President Trump and his team to return security to Europe" – perhaps a way to keep the US president onside despite his administration's apparent soft approach to Russia. But he stressed that Ukraine needs a "worthy peace," and that the "dignity of the Ukrainian people" must be respected. The statement came after a meeting in Kyiv on Thursday between Zelensky and senior US military figures, including US Army Secretary Dan Driscoll, army chief of staff Gen Randy George and top US army commander in Europe Gen Chris Donahue. When asked if Europe was involved in the process of drafting the plan, EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas said: "Not that I know of." She added: "For any plan to work, it needs Ukrainians and Europeans onboard." Ukraine's European allies have now had to take on much of the funding for Kyiv's military and financial aid, and countries including the UK and France have offered to provide forces to ensure any peace holds. Moscow, meanwhile, has downplayed the significance of the 28-point plan. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that, while there had been "contacts" with the US, there was "no process that could be called 'consultations'". Peskov warned that any peace deal would have to address the "root causes of the conflict" - a phrase Moscow has used as shorthand for a series of maximalist demands which, to Ukraine, are tantamount to surrender. Since starting his second term earlier this year, Trump has launched into various initiatives aimed at ending the war in Ukraine including several visits by his envoy Steve Witkoff to Moscow, and rounds of talks with Zelensky and other Western leaders. But as the fourth anniversary of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine nears, the two sides remain deeply at odds over how to end the conflict. While Ukraine has become adept at targeting Russian military infrastructure and energy facilities with long-range drones, Moscow's attacks on Ukrainian targets continue unabated. Late on Thursday, a Russian attack on the Ukrainian city of Zaporizhzhia killed at least five people, according to the regional governor. Hours later, Russia's defence ministry said it had intercepted and destroyed 33 Ukrainian drones over several Russian regions. Earlier this week, at least 26 people were killed in a Russian missile and drone attack on blocks of flats in Ukraine's western city of Ternopil. Another 17 people were still missing at the site on Thursday, Zelensky said. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Kirill Dmitriev is a rare breed of Russian diplomat. At 50 he is relatively young and he has a deep understanding of the US, having studied and worked there for several years. He is also a man of commerce, as head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, and a good fit for his opposite number in the Trump administration, special envoy Steve Witkoff. Dmitriev now finds himself under the spotlight over a draft peace plan that emerged after he spent three days with Witkoff in Miami. His team has refused to comment on its proposals, which read like a Putin wishlist, requiring Ukraine to cede territory under its control and slash the size of its military. Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky has been careful not to reject its terms, but says any deal must bring a "dignified peace, with terms that respect our independence, our sovereignty". Putin's special envoy understands modern Ukraine better than most in Moscow. He was brought up in Ukraine, and a friend claims that as a 15-year-old Dmitriev took part in pro-democracy protests in Kyiv before the fall of the Soviet Union. He has been a fixture of US-Russian diplomatic initiatives pretty much since the start of Trump's second presidency - and Steve Witkoff has been a regular counterpart. "We are sure we are on the road to peace, and as peacemakers we need to make it happen," Dmitriev told a conference in Saudi Arabia in late October. The pair appear to have first crossed paths in February 2025 when Putin's envoy played a role in securing the release of an American teacher from a Russian jail. "There's a gentleman from Russia, his name is Kirill, and he had a lot to do with this. He was important. He was an important interlocutor bridging the two sides," Witkoff told reporters. Days later, when US and Russian diplomats met in Saudi Arabia, in effect bringing an end to Russia's diplomatic isolation in the West, Dmitriev took part in talks on economic relations and Witkoff was there too. Dmitriev's direct approach to Trump officials has not always paid off. When Trump announced sanctions on Russia's top two oil firms last month, US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent labelled him a "Russian propagandist" for suggesting it would mean higher US fuel prices at the pump. Unlike the majority of Putin's entourage, the Russian leader's envoy is comfortable in a US TV studio. He is careful to praise Trump's diplomatic skills while giving Western viewers the Russian government narrative in their own language. "I'm not a military guy… but the position of [the] Russian military is they only hit military targets," he told CNN's Jake Tapper recently, days after a kindergarten was bombed in the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv. "I'm just working to have dialogue and make sure that the conflict is ended as soon as possible." Dmitriev certainly is not a military guy, he's a private investment specialist with an eye for a deal. Witkoff may rate him, but in 2022 during Joe Biden's presidency, the US Treasury called him a "known Putin ally"  and imposed sanctions on the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) which he has run since 2011. "While officially a sovereign wealth fund, RDIF is widely considered a slush fund for President Vladimir Putin and is emblematic of Russia's broader kleptocracy," it said. Dmitriev's attitude to the Biden years is pretty clear: under Biden there was no attempt to understand the Russian position, he argues, while Trump's team stopped World War Three. It is claimed that Dmitriev has accumulated a real estate fortune with his wife, TV presenter Natalia Popova. Popova is a friend and colleague of Vladimir Putin's daughter, Katerina Tikhonova - and deputy head of Tikhonova's tech firm Innopraktika. Dmitriev is also widely seen as part of Tikhonova's circle. His rise to the top in Moscow is a far cry from his childhood in Kyiv, as the son of two scientists. Dmitriev's father is a well known cell biologist in Ukraine and his mother a geneticist. That scientific background may have influenced his move to use his Russian sovereign wealth fund to finance Russia's Covid vaccine Sputnik V. Dmitriev is believed to have first met Russia's long-time leader at the start of his presidency in 2000, but he has not always agreed with his views. While Putin saw the collapse of the Soviet Union as the "biggest geopolitical catastrophe of the century", a friend claims Dmitriev joined an anti-Soviet student protest in Kyiv at the age of 15. His relationship with the US began the same year, in 1990, when he took part in a student exchange programme in New Hampshire, where a local newspaper quoted him highlighting Ukraine's national identity: "Ukraine had a long history as an independent nation before it became part of the Russian empire." He later returned to the US as a college student and wrote a thesis on privatisation in Ukraine while at Stanford University. In his thesis proposal he suggested the research would "prepare me better for making a contribution to the reform process in Ukraine". After earning an MBA at Harvard, he worked for McKinsey in Los Angeles, Prague and Moscow, and then joined the US-Russia Investment Fund, set up by the US to ease Russia's transition to a market economy. Dmitriev appeared critical of Putin's crackdown on Russia's oligarchs in 2003 in a column for the Vedomosti business paper. "The world is shrewd enough to know the difference between following the letter of the law and using the law as a tool of influence," he wrote. By 2007 he was back in Ukraine, in charge of Icon Private Equity, an investment fund with offices in Kyiv and Moscow. Increasingly he lamented Ukraine's political "instability" and suggested Russia was better placed to respond to the global financial crisis. He was a regular guest on TV talk shows and in 2010 he warned Ukraine would face an "economic Holodomor"  if it pursued a policy of isolation from Russia: a reference to the Ukrainian famine of the1930s brought on by the policies of Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin. In 2011 he moved back to Russia to take charge of the newly-launched Russian Direct Investment Fund and remains there to this day. His overtures to the Trump administration have not come out of the blue. The Mueller report into the Trump campaign's ties to Russia during the 2016 US presidential election refers to Dmitriev meeting campaign supporters after the vote. But it was from February 2025 that contacts with the US were stepped up. Much of his work has been on diplomacy, but he has always had an eye on commercial opportunity. He proposed joint energy projects in the Arctic, and suggested partnering Russia's sovereign wealth fund with US companies in developing rare earth deposits. He has also spoken of Russia offering Elon Musk "a small-sized nuclear power plant for a mission to Mars" and even an $8bn (£6bn) "Putin-Trump" rail tunnel linking their two countries beneath the Bering Strait. Dmitriev's stock may be rising in Russia, but his reputation has taken a dive in Ukraine, where sanctions have been imposed on him for alleged crimes against Ukraine and Ukrainians. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Senior Pentagon officials have arrived in Ukraine to "discuss efforts to end the war" with Russia, the US military says. US Army Secretary Dan Driscoll held talks with Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Svyrydenko and was to see President Volodymyr Zelensky later. Reports had surfaced on Wednesday that the US and Russia had prepared a new proposed framework to end the war, requiring major concessions from Ukraine including giving up territory and dramatically shrinking its military. The White House said President Donald Trump had grown "frustrated" with both Russia and Ukraine "for their refusal to commit to a peace agreement" and his team had been working on a "detailed and acceptable" peace plan. A senior US official confirmed to the BBC that special envoy Steve Witkoff had been "quietly working" on a plan and that he had received input from both the Ukrainians and the Russians "on what terms are acceptable to them to end the war". "Both sides will have to make concessions, not just Ukraine," the official said. Details of the draft 28-point plan emerged more than three weeks after Witkoff and his Russian counterpart Kirill Dmitriev are said to have spent three days in meetings in Miami, Florida. Moscow has not confirmed or denied that a plan was worked out. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said "contacts" had taken place with the US, but no "consultations or negotiations" were happening. Citing people familiar with the matter, Axios, the Financial Times and Reuters have reported that the plans call for Kyiv to give up areas of the Donbas in eastern Ukraine that it still controls, to cut significantly the size of its armed forces and to forego many of its weapons. Zelensky has repeatedly ruled out any territorial concessions to Russia. Neither EU nor Ukrainian officials are believed to have been involved in drafting the new proposal, sparking fears it could be overwhelmingly favourable to Russia. EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas warned that for any plan to work, it would need to have Ukrainians and their European allies on board, and French Foreign Minister Jean-Noël Barrot said "the Ukrainians do not want any form of capitulation". After meeting US officials, Ukraine's prime minister did not address the rumoured plan but said their visit provided an "opportunity for representatives of the American administration to assess the situation on the ground and see the consequences of Russian aggression". On Wednesday Ukrainian officials said at least 26 people had been killed in a Russian missile and drone attack on blocks of flats in Ukraine's western city of Ternopil. Another 22 people were missing at the site, Zelensky said in an update on Thursday. Zelensky was in Turkey at the time of the Ternopil attack and unconfirmed Ukrainian reports suggested that talks had been planned with Trump's envoy in Ankara but had then been called off. Driscoll's team is the most senior military group to travel to Kyiv since Trump took office in January. He is joined by army chief of staff Gen Randy George, top US army commander in Europe Gen Chris Donahue, and Sergeant Major of the Army Michael Weimer. There was no mention of the proposed framework when the US army secretary arrived in Kyiv late on Wednesday. Army spokesman Col David Butler said only that Driscoll and his team were there "on behalf of the [Trump] administration on a fact-finding mission to meet Ukrainian officials and discuss efforts to end the war". A Ukrainian official told CBS, the BBC's US media partner, that talks on the trip would focus on the military situation on the ground - as well as plans for a possible ceasefire. The unnamed official said: "Presidents Zelensky and Trump have already agreed to stop the conflict along the existing lines of engagement, and there are agreements on granting security guarantees." After talks with the US army secretary on Wednesday, Ukrainian Defence Minister Denys Shmyhal posted on X: "We focused on the next steps for implementing the historic defence agreements reached by President Zelensky and President Trump." Kyiv and its Western allies, including the US, have been calling for an immediate ceasefire along the vast front line but Moscow has ruled that out, repeating demands that Ukraine says amount to its de facto capitulation. Earlier this month, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Moscow's pre-conditions for a peace deal - including ceding territory, tough curbs on the size of Ukraine's military and the country's neutrality - had not changed since President Vladimir Putin laid them out in 2024. Meanwhile, a White House official confirmed to the BBC that special envoy to Ukraine Keith Kellogg would leave his post in January. He reportedly decided that this would be a natural end to his time in the post, which requires Senate approval beyond 360 days. Kellogg has been seen as an important advocate for Ukraine in the White House during a time when Trump has often appeared to side with Russia in the conflict. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
In July this year a 17-year-old travelled 500 miles from his home in eastern Ukraine to collect a bomb and a phone hidden in a park in the western city of Rivne. He says he was promised $2,000 (£1,520) to plant the bomb in a van used by Ukraine's military conscription service. "When I was connecting the wires, I thought it could explode then. I thought I might die," he told the BBC. Vlad is one of hundreds of children and older teenagers who the Ukrainian government alleges have been recruited online by Russia, and offered payment to carry out sabotage and other attacks against their own country. His name has been changed to protect his anonymity. He says he was told to set up the phone to live-stream the scene to his handler so they could remotely detonate the device when somebody entered the vehicle. However, Ukraine's SBU security service had been watching and foiled the attack. Vlad - now 18 - is awaiting trial on terrorism charges that potentially carry a 12-year prison sentence. Sitting in Rivne's heavily guarded detention centre with his lawyer beside him, he acknowledges that he could have helped kill somebody. "I did think about it. But nobody likes conscription officers," he says. "I thought: Well, I'll be like everyone else." The SBU says that over the last two years more than 800 Ukrainians have been identified as having been recruited by Russia - 240 of them minors, some as young as 11. However, cyber security expert Anastasiia Apetyk, who teaches courses about internet safety in Ukraine, is aware of even younger cases. "They tried to recruit children aged nine or 10," she says. Andriy Nebytov, Deputy Head of Ukraine's National Police, says there is a deliberate strategy to seek out the vulnerable who can be manipulated. "Children do not always fully realise the consequences of their actions," he says. "The enemy is not ashamed of using minors for making explosives out of household chemicals, planting them in various locations such as army recruitment offices or police stations." The SBU says recruitment primarily takes place on the Telegram app, but also on TikTok, and even on video game platforms. Officials says those who are recruited are almost always motivated by money rather than pro-Russian sympathies. Vlad says he does not support Russia and had no previous involvement with crime. He had joined two Telegram channels and posted that he was looking for remote work. Within half an hour, a man calling himself Roman replied. When they later talked on the phone, Vlad says Roman spoke Russian with a street accent. Vlad says he was initially reluctant but was persuaded to take on a series of increasingly dangerous tasks. First, he was told to collect a grenade but when he reached the designated location it wasn't there. He was paid $30 anyway. A few days later came another job - to set fire to a van belonging to a conscription centre, film it and run. For that attack, Vlad says he received about $100 in cryptocurrency - much less than the $1,500 he'd been promised. Roman told him he would get the rest if he planted the bomb in Rivne. The Telegram channels the BBC has seen where recruitment takes place are not explicitly pro-Russian, but they amplify anger felt by some Ukrainians towards the conscription service, which has been dogged by allegations of brutality and corruption. Using a burner phone and an alias we joined several we were tipped off about. The channels contained clips of fires and explosions which they claimed were carried out on their orders. But the BBC has not been able to verify the circumstances surrounding those videos. One account we contacted immediately offered payment, either in cryptocurrency or via bank transfer, to carry out arson. We were told to contact a second account for more details and then received a message with a price list detailing how much they offered to pay for different targets. The payments ranged from $1,500 for setting fire to a post office to $3,000 for a bank. Banks were worth more, they explained, because security glass made them harder to attack. "You either need to pour petrol inside or throw a few Molotov cocktails inside," the account advised. But even ordinary Ukrainians looking for employment can find themselves offered money to carry out sabotage. We found adverts offering high pay for unspecified part time work posted in a variety of unrelated Ukrainian Telegram groups, including some geared at refugees and even beauty tips. When we followed one up, a recruiter again offered thousands of dollars for arson attacks and asked us to send videos as proof. "I need all the arson I can get," they messaged. "Finding a reliable person is far more difficult than parting with money. That's why I pay exactly what I say and I do it very quickly, usually within a couple of hours after receiving the video." The BBC reported a number of these channels, accounts, chats and bots to Telegram, which removed a few but not most of them. One of the channels that is still active has grown by over 750 subscribers since we started monitoring it, meanwhile an account that we told Telegram had directly offered us payment for an arson attack is still live. In a statement, Telegram said: "Calls to violence or destruction of property are explicitly forbidden on Telegram and are immediately removed whenever discovered." Ukrainian officials have publicly named members of Russia's intelligence agencies they suspect of acting as handlers to saboteurs. The BBC has not been able to independently verify that the Russian state itself is responsible. However, several European governments have said that they have evidence of Russian agents recruiting young men to carry out acts of vandalism, arson, or even surveillance in their countries. In the UK, six men were jailed for their part in a Russian-ordered arson attack on a London warehouse providing aid to Ukraine. In Ukraine, hundreds of alleged saboteurs are awaiting trial, but for some the consequences can be deadly. Several suspects have been killed by explosives they were carrying. The SBU claims Russian handlers have deliberately detonated devices remotely, knowing their agents would be killed. In March, a 17-year-old died and a 15-year-old was badly injured when a bomb they were believed to be taking to a rail station in Ivano-Frankivsk exploded. The BBC put the SBU's allegations to the Russian Embassy in London. In a statement it accused Ukraine of a similar sabotage campaign using Russian citizens. "The practices that you mention have become a trademark of the Ukrainian special services. In particular: recruitment of civilians, including children, to carry out arson, sabotage or bombings against people, buildings or vehicles." There have been reports attributing acts of sabotage inside Russia to Ukrainian recruitment on Telegram. But again, it is notoriously difficult to verify who exactly is behind these attacks. Meanwhile Vlad has a message for others tempted by the recruiters. "It's not worth it. They will either cheat you, and then you will end up in prison just like me, or you can take a bomb in your hands and it will simply blow you up." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. A UK Foreign Office spokesman accuses Russia of an "aggressive and co-ordinated campaign of harassment against British diplomats". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
To Russia, the Yantar is an oceanic research vessel - to others, including the UK, it's a spy ship, and a worry for Britain's defence chiefs. The vessel has long been suspected of secretly mapping out Britain's undersea cables, where more than 90% of our data, including billions of dollars of financial transactions, are transferred. But now, a new escalation, with revelations the Yantar's sailors targeted Royal Air Force pilots in patrol planes with lasers. Shining lasers into a pilot's eyes is provocative, and to use the Defence Secretary John Healey's words, "deeply dangerous". It's illegal in the UK and can lead to a prison sentence. Healey's direct message to Russia and its leader Vladimir Putin was stark: "We see you. We know what you're doing. And if the Yantar travels south this week, we are ready." By that, he is implying should the Yantar cross inside Britain's 12-mile maritime boundary there would be a military response. This isn't the first time the Yantar has popped up near Britain's shores - at the start of the year a Royal Navy submarine made the highly unusual move to surface right in front of the ship as a sort of deterrent measure. The concern is that this is part of an ongoing operation by the Kremlin to locate and map all the vital undersea cables and pipelines that connect the UK to the rest of the world. It is also part of a wider pattern of Russian activity, as it tests Nato's reactions, resolve and defences. We've seen similar moves with the recent drone incursions across Europe, and Russian warplanes flying into Nato airspace. When three Russian fighter jets entered Estonian skies without permission in September, Italy, Finland and Sweden scrambled jets under Nato's mission to bolster its eastern flank. This is all interesting intel for Russia. As an island nation, Britain is heavily reliant on its network of undersea cables that carry data. There are also vital oil and gas pipelines connecting Britain to North Sea neighbours such as Norway. These cables and pipes are largely undefended and apparently of great interest to Russia's research vessels. Nato has identified deep-sea cables as part of the world's critical infrastructure. But they are also strategic pressure points, it says, warning that adversaries could exploit them through sabotage or hybrid warfare, threatening both civilian and military communications. Retired Royal Navy Commander Tom Sharpe made clear what the spy ship could be doing: "The most obvious one is they sit above our cables and our critical undersea infrastructure and they nose around in the cables that transfer up to $7tn worth of financial transactions every day between us and America alone". The Yantar may be described by Moscow as a research vessel, but it is part of Russia's secretive Main Directorate for Deep Sea Research, or GUGI, which reports directly to the defence ministry. And while the ship bristles with hi-tech communications equipment, it's what we can't see that is of most concern. It can operate remotely-piloted miniature submarines that can dive down to sea beds many thousands of metres below the surface. These are capable of mapping the locations of cables, cutting them or planting sabotage devices that could, potentially, be activated in a time of war. The Royal Navy is experimenting with various means of combating the threat, such as a new vessel called Proteus, but critics fear much of the damage to Britain's coastal security may already have been done. Any foreign vessel operating in British waters must comply with UK national laws and international maritime conventions. The cornerstone of these complex rules is the UN Convention on the Law of The Sea (UNCLOS). This allows foreign ships to navigate through coastal waters provided that their passage is "innocent" - meaning it doesn't threaten the peace or security of a coastal nation like Britain. President Putin was at an AI conference in Moscow on Wednesday, and gave no immediate reaction on the situation unfolding north of Scotland. Russia's Embassy in London says it's not undermining UK security and it has condemned UK Defence Secretary Healey's statement as provocative. But all this is happening while war rages in Ukraine, a conflict Putin blames on the West and which seemingly he has no intention of stopping soon. Additional reporting by Tiffany Wertheimer and Stuart Hughes The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Italy's top appeals court has ruled that a Ukrainian man suspected of involvement in blowing up the Nord Stream gas pipelines between Russia and Germany should be extradited to Berlin. There, former Ukrainian military officer Serhiy Kuznetsov will face a charge of anti-constitutional sabotage. He is due to be removed from Italy under German police escort in the next few days. Prosecutors believe Mr Kuznetsov coordinated and led a group that planted explosives on the pipes deep beneath the Baltic Sea in 2022, though they have not disclosed any evidence. The case has serious implications for relations between Ukraine and Germany, which is the biggest source of military aid for Kyiv in Europe. Mr Kuznetsov's lawyer said his client "feels like a scapegoat" and is "very sad" that his government has not spoken out in his defence, or even confirmed that he was a serving soldier at the time of the blasts. "If he carried out the attack, then he did so because he was ordered to do so because he was for sure a captain of the Ukrainian army," Nicola Canestrini said after Wednesday's hearing. The BBC has seen a copy of Mr Kuznetsov's military ID among the court papers. He has not commented publicly on whether he was involved in the explosions. "The Ukrainian government knows exactly where he was every day of September 2022," his lawyer said. "So, if he's innocent, why don't they say it? If he did it, why don't they say it? That's his question." The BBC has approached government and security sources in Kyiv, but they have not commented. Mr Kuznetsov was arrested in northern Italy in late August, at a glamping site near the city of Rimini where he had booked in for a few nights with his wife and two of their children. His passport details were entered online at check-in, and in Italy that information is automatically transferred to the carabinieri, the local police. Later that night, officers came knocking at the family's door. A month later, a second Ukrainian suspect was detained at his home close to Poland's capital Warsaw on another arrest warrant issued by Germany. Volodymyr Zhuravlyov, an amateur deep-sea diver, has lived in Poland with his family since just before Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. He was held in custody for 17 days, but a court then refused to extradite him. The judge delivered a passionate speech, arguing that no Ukrainian could be prosecuted for what he characterised as a legitimate act of self-defence against Russia's "bloody and genocidal" invasion of Ukraine. In Italy, further from Ukraine, the mood and the politics are very different. Mr Canestrini described the Italian appeal court's ruling as a "great disappointment", but said the fight for his client would now move to Germany - with the aim of having Mr Kuznetsov acquitted on the same grounds. Many Ukrainians consider whoever did destroy Nord Stream to be heroes for taking out an important revenue source for Russia, and struggle to understand why Germany - a key ally of Ukraine - is pursuing this prosecution. On Wednesday, one man stood outside the palatial courthouse in Rome wrapped in a Ukrainian flag and holding a poster that read: "Serhiy Kuznetsov is a defender, not a criminal." Pope Leo XIV addressed thousands of worshippers gathered in St Peter's Square on Easter Sunday in his first address as pontiff. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Roberto Mazzarella has been on the run for more than a year and was living under a false name, police say. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least 26 people have been killed including three children in a Russian missile and drone attack that hit two blocks of flats in the western city of Ternopil, Ukrainian officials say. They say another 93 people were wounded, 18 of them children, in the strike early on Wednesday - one of the deadliest in the region since Moscow launched its full-scale invasion in February 2022. Ukraine's air force later said Russian X-101 cruise missiles had hit the residential flats. The neighbouring Lviv and Ivano-Frankivsk regions were also struck, and a drone attack on three districts of the north-eastern city of Kharkiv wounded more than 30 people. Photos posted online showed buildings and cars ablaze. Ukraine's air force said it had shot down 442 of 476 drones and 41 of 48 missiles launched by Russia, including 10 missiles destroyed by F-16 and Mirage 2000 fighter jets supplied to Kyiv by its Western allies. But in a reference to how stretched Ukraine's air defences currently are, the air force pleaded for "the uninterrupted and timely supply of aviation weapons from Western partners". Ternopil, a city closer to the Polish border than the capital Kyiv, has rarely faced attacks since the full-scale invasion. Social media footage of this strike shows missiles shooting across the sky towards the city, though very little sign of air defences reacting from the ground. The devastation caused by the Russian strikes on Ternopil soon became clear. A video shared by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky showed one of the blocks of flats had completely caved in. Interior Minister Ihor Klymenko said it had been destroyed between the third and ninth floors. The attack had caused "significant destruction", said Zelensky, and many victims were reported to be in the rubble. Plumes of smoke poured from windows and small fires burned outside the tenement. A giant smoke cloud rose in the distance behind the Church of Our Lady of Perpetual Help in Ternopil, as sirens blared throughout the city. With limited defence systems, and a vast country to defend every night, no matter how effective Ukraine becomes at shooting down Russian missiles and drones, there is always a risk some will get through – to devastating effect, as happened in Ternopil. Energy facilities, transport and civil infrastructure were damaged elsewhere in western Ukraine. The energy sector came under attack in Ivano-Frankivsk region where two of the three people reported wounded were children. The head of Lviv region said an energy facility had been struck. Russia has recently upped its attacks on Ukraine's energy grid - as the fourth winter of the war approaches - hoping to damage morale as well as logistics and Ukraine's own defence industry. Electrical supplies are already being rationed and, after the latest attacks, the energy ministry announced more power cuts across the country. Russia's defence ministry said it had carried out its "massive strike using long-range precision weapons", claiming it had targeted Ukraine's "military-industrial complex and energy sector" in response to Ukrainian attacks on "civilian targets". Ukraine's military said on Tuesday it had fired US-supplied longer-range Atacms missiles at military targets inside Russia, the first time they had admitted using Atacms on Russian soil. Russia's defence ministry accused Ukraine of firing four of the missiles at the southern city of Voronezh but said they had all been shot down by air defences. Meanwhile, Zelensky has travelled to the Turkish capital Ankara, in an attempt to revive a US bid to end the war. He held talks with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan amid reports President Donald Trump's special envoy Steve Witkoff has been working on a plan with Russian counterpart Kirill Dmitriev. The Kremlin said earlier that no Russian representative would be joining the talks in Ankara. Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman appeared to dismiss US media reports that Washington and Moscow had been working on a peace plan for Ukraine - without any involvement of Kyiv and its European allies. "In this case, we have no additional innovations to what we call 'the spirit of Anchorage'," Dmitry Peskov told Russia's state-run media, referring to the August summit between Putin and Trump in the US state Alaska. Any agreements reached during the one-day meeting have not been made public. Peskov's comments came as Zelensky was reportedly due to meet two top US army officials in Kyiv on Thursday. Army Secretary Dan Driscoll and Army Chief of Staff General Randy George are the most senior US military officials to visit the Ukrainian capital since President Donald Trump took office, Reuters reports. In a separate development, Romania's defence ministry said a Russian drone had flown about 8km (5 miles) through its airspace in the early hours of Wednesday. The drone then crossed into Ukraine and Moldova before returning to Romania, it said. Romanian and German air force planes were scrambled in response to the incursion and the defence ministry said it was unclear where the drone had come down. Poland also deployed jets early on Wednesday and temporarily closed two airports in the southeast in response to the strikes in western Ukraine. As the fourth anniversary of the start of Russia's full-scale invasion approaches next February, Moscow and Kyiv remain fundamentally opposed in their views of how to end the war. Ukraine and its Western allies, including the US, have called for an immediate ceasefire along the vast front line – but Russia has repeatedly ruled that out, repeating demands that Ukraine says amount to its de facto capitulation. Earlier this month, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Moscow's pre-conditions for a peace deal - including tough curbs on the size of Ukraine's military and the country's neutrality - had not changed since Putin laid them out two months before the full-scale invasion. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan are meeting in Ankara on Wednesday, as the Ukrainian president said he wanted to "intensify" peace negotiations. "Bringing the end of the war closer with all our might is Ukraine's top priority," Zelensky said, adding that efforts would also focus on resuming prisoner exchanges. It was unclear whether representatives from the US would join. Special envoy Steve Witkoff was rumoured to take part in the talks, but hours before the meeting was meant to take place his attendance had not been confirmed. Turkey has maintained ties with both Kyiv and Moscow and has previously hosted talks between the two factions. But no Russian representative is set to join the meeting in Ankara, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Tuesday. He added that while there were "no concrete plans" for Vladimir Putin to speak to either the Turkish side or to US special envoy Steve Witkoff, the Russian president was "of course open to a conversation". Ankara will be the fourth capital Zelensky visits in only a few days. In Athens he secured a gas deal, in Paris he signed an agreement to obtain up to 100 fighter jets and in Madrid he held talks on co-operation with Spanish arms manufacturers. The visits are part of Zelensky's mission to try to shore up European support for Ukraine while Russian attacks on the country intensify and Moscow's troops close in on the key city eastern city of Pokrovsk. Domestically, Zelensky is facing the most serious crisis in years. Several members of his closest circle are under investigation for co-organising a large-scale criminal scheme, and two ministers have resigned. The scandal threatens to widen still and some EU leaders – who in December will decide whether to unblock a €140bn (£121bn) loan for Kyiv based on frozen Russian state assets – have warned Zelensky needs to do more to tackle corruption. As the fourth anniversary of the start of Russia's full-scale invasion in February 2022 inches closer, Moscow and Kyiv remain fundamentally opposed in their views of how to end the war. Earlier in November Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said that Russia's conditions for a peace deal had not changed since Putin laid them out in 2024. At the time, the Russian president demanded that Kyiv renounce any ambition to join Nato, as well as full Ukrainian withdrawal from the Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions. Zelensky has repeatedly argued that withdrawing from Donetsk and Luhansk – together known as the Donbas – would leave the rest of the country vulnerable to future attacks. Following a long meeting with Putin in April, Witkoff - the US special envoy - appeared to suggest that a peace deal between Moscow and Kyiv hinged on the status of the contested Ukrainian regions as well as Crimea, which Russia illegally annexed in 2014. This stance led to tensions with Zelensky, who accused him of "disseminating Russian narratives". Zelensky and Witkoff have not met since early September. Although the summer saw a flurry of high-level talks and meetings - including between Trump and Putin - American efforts to bring a ceasefire between Russia and Ukraine closer have stalled. At one point, it appeared Trump and Putin were about to meet again in Budapest –but that summit was scrapped, apparently after the US side became aware that Moscow had no intention of budging from several demands that were unacceptable to Kyiv. But contact between US and Russian officials has continued, albeit under the radar. Putin's special envoy Kirill Dmitriev was reportedly in Washington for meetings with Witkoff in late October, only days after Trump imposed sanctions on Russia's two biggest oil companies. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. The final six nations have qualified for the 2026 World Cup - this is your essential lowdown on the expanded edition of the tournament. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two Ukrainian citizens who long worked for Russian intelligence have been identified as the suspects behind two acts of sabotage on Poland's rail network, Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said. One suspect had already been convicted in absentia of acts of sabotage in Ukraine, Tusk told parliament. On Monday, he visited the scene of an explosion near Mika, south-east of Warsaw, which damaged the railway line leading to the Ukrainian border at the weekend, and called it an "unprecedented act of sabotage". Another incident down the line near Pulawy on Monday forced a packed train to stop suddenly and damage was found to overhead cables. The Kremlin brushed off suggestions of Russian involvement. Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said: "It would have been really strange, if Russia hadn't been blamed first." "Russia is accused of all acts of hybrid and direct war... in Poland," he told Russia's state-run media, adding: "Russophobia is certainly rampant there." Polish authorities had initially said there was a very high chance that the two acts of sabotage on the Warsaw-Lublin railway line had been ordered by a "foreign service". Then a spokesman for Poland's special services minister said on Tuesday that "everything points to them being Russian special services". "The goal was to cause a rail catastrophe," Tusk told MPs. The Polish prime minister said he would not disclose the names of the two suspects as this could complicate the operation, though he told parliament that one was living in Belarus and the other was a resident of eastern Ukraine. Both suspects had crossed into Poland from Belarus during the autumn and had now returned there via the border crossing at Terespol in the far south-west of Belarus, close to the Ukrainian border, he added. Tusk said that a military-grade C4 explosive device had been detonated on 15 November at about 21:00 (20:00 GMT) near the village of Mika. The explosion, which happened as a freight train was passing, caused minor damage to a wagon floor. It was captured on CCTV. Tusk said the train driver had not even noticed the incident. A previous attempt to derail a train by placing a steel clamp on the rail had failed, he added. The second act of sabotage, on 17 November, involved a train carrying 475 passengers having to suddenly brake because of damaged railway infrastructure, said Tusk. The prime minister also said he would issue an order later on Tuesday to raise the alert level on certain railway lines. He said since the start of last year 55 people had been detained on suspicion of assisting, preparing, or committing acts of sabotage and that 23 of them had been remanded in custody. Russia's motivation, Tusk went on, was to sow panic and stir up anti-Ukrainian sentiment in Polish society, which is home to more than one million Ukrainian war refugees. "I want to emphasise that what the Russian authorities care about is not only the direct effect of this type of action, but also the social and political consequences of the fact that this action is taking place," he said. "This of course means disorganisation, chaos, panic, speculation and uncertainty." Poland is both a Nato and EU member state, and its railway network has become vital for moving supplies of aid into Ukraine since Russia launched its full-scale invasion in February 2022. In September, Tusk said three Russian drones had been shot down by Polish and other Nato aircraft in Poland's airspace during overnight attacks on Ukraine. He said at the time that authorities had recorded 19 drone incursions, with some flying deep enough to temporarily close four airports, including Warsaw's main hub Chopin. Russia's defence ministry responded by saying there had been "no plans" to target facilities on Polish soil. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. The World Cup includes 48 nations, but there are still a number of top players who have missed out on qualification. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Poland's prime minister has said an explosion on a railway line leading to the Ukraine border this weekend was caused by "an unprecedented act of sabotage", and vowed to catch those responsible "regardless of who their backers are". Visiting the scene on Monday, Donald Tusk said the damage done to the railway tracks on Sunday was deliberate and likely aimed at blowing up the train. He expressed relief there were no casualties. After an emergency meeting of security officials on Monday, Poland's special services minister did not initially name Russia directly, but said there was a "very high chance" that the blast was carried out on the orders of "foreign services". However, spokesman Jacek Dobrzynski told reporters on Tuesday that "everything points to them being Russian special services". Russia "wants to shake our society, they want to scare us", he added. Polish officials were initially cautious about blaming Russia openly, although they gave very strong indications who they believed to be responsible. Poland has experienced a series of major arson and sabotage attacks in recent years, including parcel bombings, that it sees as part of Moscow's hybrid war on the West. The explosion at the weekend happened on the track between Warsaw and Lublin to the south-east, and Donald Tusk noted that the route was "crucially important for delivering aid to Ukraine". Poland's railway network is a critical part of the military supply lines for its neighbour as well as a route for civilians moving in and out of the country. Investigators are looking into a second incident that occurred further down the same line on Sunday, where a packed train was forced to stop suddenly. It's thought "very likely" to be another case of sabotage – though not an explosion. "These events show that the people behind it have decided to begin a new phase of threatening the railway infrastructure," Special Services Minister Tomasz Siemoniak said. Russia always denies any role in such attacks. The damage near Mika, about 100km (60 miles) south-east of Warsaw, was detected at around 07:30 local time (06:30 GMT) on Sunday morning by a train driver who was forced to make an emergency stop. Photographs from the scene appear to show a section of track missing. There were only two passengers and several staff on board the train and no one was hurt. On Monday the interior minister confirmed that the use of explosives was "beyond any doubt", though he didn't go into detail, citing the ongoing investigation. A local resident told Polish TV he had heard a blast the previous evening. "It shook the whole building, the windows... it all trembled so much," the man said, adding that people several kilometres away had felt the impact. He thought at first it was a gas explosion, or a falling drone. A police patrol investigated but found nothing untoward. The following morning, several trains passed over the damaged section of track and one reported the problem back to base but the line was not closed. No suspects have yet been detained but officials say police have collected a significant amount of evidence, including footage from nearby security cameras, to help identify who carried out this "shameful act of sabotage". The strong language and close focus on the incident come as Poland investigates another suspected hybrid attack involving parcel bombs sent from Lithuania last year using a courier service. One exploded just outside Warsaw and a second was intercepted. Another reached the UK on a cargo plane and went off in a DHL warehouse. A number of suspects are in custody in Poland awaiting trial, including a Russian man, said to be one of the organisers, who was extradited from Bosnia. There have been multiple other cases using people recruited via the Telegram messenger app, using accounts that Poland believes are run by Russian intelligence. Two years ago, more than a dozen people were found guilty of installing secret cameras close to the railway lines in Poland that are used to send weapons and equipment to Ukraine. But this is the first direct attack on the network. Some experts quoted by Polish media suggest the aim was mainly psychological: that the explosives were meant to derail the train, not destroy it, to scare Poland off continuing its support for Ukraine. But the Justice Minister said anyone involved would be found and prosecuted "ruthlessly" and there was "no place on earth they can hide". Despite the symbolic show of strength – with several security officials and a prosecutor lined up on stage in suits - government ministers faced a barrage of questions about how such sabotage was possible and why the damage to the track wasn't located sooner. In a tetchy exchange, the officials insisted that the response had been swift and effective and that it was "untrue and insulting" to criticise. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. The World Cup includes 48 nations, but there are still a number of top players who have missed out on qualification. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine will receive up to 100 of France's Rafale F4 fighter jets as well as advanced air defence systems in a major deal to boost Kyiv's ability to protect itself against deadly Russian attacks. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky hailed the move as "historic", after signing the letter of intent with his French counterpart Emmanuel Macron at an air base near Paris. Deliveries of the Rafale F4s are planned to be completed by 2035, while the joint production of interceptor drones is starting this year. Financial details are yet to be worked out, but reports say France plans to attract EU financing and also access frozen Russian assets - a controversial move that has split the 27-member bloc. "This is a strategic agreement which will last for 10 years starting from the next year," Zelensky said at a joint briefing with Macron on Monday. Ukraine will also get "very strong French radars", eight air defence systems and other advanced weaponry, he added. Zelensky stressed that using such advanced systems "means protecting someone's life... this is very important". Russia has in recent months increased its drone and missile attacks on Ukraine, targeting energy and rail infrastructure and causing massive blackouts across the country. Dozens of civilians have been killed in the strikes, in what Kyiv and its Western allies describe as war crimes. In the latest overnight Russian missile attack, three people were killed and 15 injured in the north-eastern city of Balakliya, local officials said. Speaking alongside Zelensky, Macron said: "We're planning Rafales, 100 Rafales - that's huge. That's what's needed for the regeneration of the Ukrainian military." The French president added that he wanted to help Ukraine prepare for whatever was coming next. These fighter jets are seen as crucial to protecting Ukraine's skies, because the country is almost powerless in preventing long-range air strikes on its border towns and cities. "The Russians are using 6,000 glide bombs per month," Serhiy Kuzhan, a Ukrainian defence analyst, told the BBC. "It would be important to have a French air-to-air system, with a 200km range, because Russians have their own system with a range of 230km." While this announcement between Kyiv and Paris is sizeable, Justin Bronk from the Royal United Services Institute (Rusi) pointed out: "The difference they'll make will depend on the timeframe and the missiles that come with them." This is a long-term political agreement rather than a detailed purchase order, so few are expecting this announcement to dramatically change the dynamics of Russia's grinding invasion. The promises of Western military hardware are also only as effective as the training and logistics they come with. Whether it's a German-made Leopard 2 tank or an American F-16 fighter jet, they all require intensive training, sizable support crews and a lot of spare parts. With the Rafales, further complexities arise around the question of who pays. It's thought France will dip into its own budget contributions for Kyiv, as well as look at joint EU borrowing mechanisms to help pay for the deal. But what you hear privately admitted in EU's corridors of power in Brussels is that the money is slowing running out. The bloc has agreed to help support Ukraine's battered economy for the next two years, but there is less consensus on whether to unlock €140bn ($162bn; £123bn) of frozen Russian assets to help support Ukraine financially and militarily. The proposals are currently illegal under international law, and some members are nervous about the prospect of having to pay Russia back when the war ends. Ukraine's air force is already using France's Mirage warplanes as well as US-made F-16s. Kyiv has also recently provisionally agreed to obtain Swedish Gripen fighter jets. After France, Zelensky will travel to Spain to seek further military and other support for Ukraine. Over the weekend, he secured a gas deal with Greece. Vital supplies of US liquefied natural gas are now expected to start flowing into Ukraine this winter via a pipeline across the Balkans. Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Moscow currently controls about 20% of Ukraine's territory. Russian troops have been making slow advances along the vast front line - despite reported huge combat casualties. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Vital supplies of US liquefied natural gas are due to start flowing into war-ravaged Ukraine this winter via a pipeline across the Balkans. The deal was announced after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky met Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis in Athens on Sunday. Greece is working to increase the flow of American LNG to its terminals to "replace Russian gas in the region", Mitsotakis said recently. The European Commission plans to ban all imports of Russian gas to EU member states by the end of 2027, arguing revenue from such sales funds Russia's war in Ukraine. In Ukraine, which experiences freezing winters, there are fears of an energy crisis as Russia attacks energy facilities. Zelensky is currently in France, where he President Emmanuel Macron signed a letter of intent to buy up to 100 Rafale jets. Fighting continued overnight, with six people reportedly killed in Russian attacks in the Kharkiv, Kherson and Donetsk regions of Ukraine. Russia's military said it had taken control of three more Ukrainian villages - one each in the Kharkiv, Donetsk and Dnipropetrovsk regions. None of the reports could be independently verified. Speaking earlier in Athens, Zelensky was quoted as saying that deliveries of US LNG would begin in January. "We rebuild each time the Russians destroy but this truly requires time, much effort, equipment and, regarding gas... imports to compensate for the destruction by the Russians of our own production," he said. "Greece is becoming an energy security provider for your homeland," Mitsotakis told the Ukrainian president. Zelensky said Kyiv had allocated funds for gas imports from European partners and banks under European Commission guarantees, as well as from Ukrainian banks, to help cover imports through to March at a cost of nearly €2bn (£1.8bn; $2.3bn), according to news agency Reuters. Since 2015, when it stopped buying Russian gas directly, Ukraine has been receiving supplies from various EU states. The Soviet-era Trans-Balkan pipeline links Ukraine to LNG terminals in Greece via Moldova, Romania and Bulgaria. The UN Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Affairs has issued a formal warning, saying "the approaching winter poses new risks for Ukrainians... as intensified attacks on energy networks undermine efforts to maintain warmth in homes, schools and health centres". The letter signed by Zelensky and Macron while visiting the Villacoublay air base near Paris sets out possible future contracts for Ukraine to acquire Rafale fighter jets "with their associated weapons". The letter, which is not a purchase and sales contract, also sets out deals for SAMP-T air defence systems, radar systems and drones. On an visit to Sweden last month, Zelensky signed a letter of intent to buy between 100 and 150 Gripen fighter jets. In France, Zelensky also went to Mont Valerien, to the west of Paris, to visit the nascent headquarters of a planned multinational force. The force, which was proposed by the UK and France, may one day help oversee a Ukraine-Russia ceasefire. Tens of thousands of people, most of them soldiers, have been killed or injured, and millions of civilians have fled their homes, since Russian President Vladimir Putin launched his full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Russia currently controls about 20% of Ukraine's territory and has been making slow advances along the front line as the Ukrainian military grapples with manpower shortages. Fighting has centred on the town of Pokrovsk, a logistical hub in Donetsk region, where hundreds of Russian troops recently broke through. Ukraine's ongoing refugee crisis took another turn this month when German Chancellor Friedrich Merz urged Zelensky to take action after a surge in the number of young Ukrainian men arriving in Germany and other EU states as refugees. EU states recorded 79,205 new Ukrainian refugees in September, the highest monthly number in nearly two years. In its report, the EU's statistical agency pointed to Ukraine's decision in August to allow men aged 18 to 22 the right to cross the border freely. At the time of the invasion, martial law dictated that men aged between 18 and 60 – even those not eligible for conscription, which is currently in place for those aged between 25 and 60 – were not permitted to leave the country. Germany, the EU's biggest country, now hosts the most Ukrainian refugees - currently 1.2 million people or 28.3% of the bloc's total. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A 16-year-old who fled the war in Ukraine is now working with top scientists on space technology that could help the world achieve net zero. Kateryna has been described as an "exceptional and brilliant student" by her lecturer. The teenager spent 10 months living in a hotel room with her mother and grandmother when she first came to Wales in 2022 but has now become the first school pupil to complete an internship at Swansea University's Centre of Integrative Semiconductor Materials (CISM). Kateryna is researching space-based solar panels to harvest energy from the sun and wants to follow in the footsteps of Albert Einstein and Stephen Hawking to become a theoretical physicist. Kateryna said her work focussed on satellites orbiting the earth which experience "very high temperatures" when facing the sun. "We have to make sure the semiconductors will work efficiently in those temperatures, but also the satellite can be hidden behind the earth so it will experience very cold temperatures," she said. "We have to make sure the semiconductors will withstand that temperature range and continue to work," she added. Internships at CISM are usually open to third year undergraduates who have studied two years of physics, and Kateryna's project will be studied further by third year undergraduates at least four years older than her. Dr Gregory Burwell, a senior lecturer in the department of physics at Swansea University, described her as "exceptional". "This was the first internship of its kind at CISM, and her success has set a high benchmark for future programmes." He highlighted her work on "photovoltaics in space" - when photocells convert sunlight directly into electricity. Photovoltaic or solar panels on land are limited by the weather and Earth's day-night cycle but space-based panels face the sun and can capture solar energy 24 hours a day. The energy collected from the sun would be beamed to the ground where it is converted into electricity. Dr Burwell said solar panels used on roofs are made from silicon "which isn't ideal for space because it's too heavy to absorb enough light". "So, we're interested in developing thin filmed photovoltaics to generate more power with less weight which is important when launching satellites into space," he said. "Kateryna's achievements demonstrate the impact of giving talented students meaningful access to advanced facilities and mentoring," he said. Kateryna has got this far against all the odds - she fled the war and left her home in Kyiv at the age of 13 with her mother, Olena, 41, and 71-year-old grandmother, also called Kateryna. The three lived in a hotel room in Swansea for 10 months and Kateryna did not have any space to herself to study. "I'm very glad now we were able to secure a flat before my GCSEs and having a study space where I spend most of my time." Kateryna has started her A levels at Bishop Gore school in Swansea studying five subjects including further maths, maths, physics, chemistry and computer science as well as the Welsh baccalaureate. "School is great but is quite easy compared to the internship," she joked. Eight thousand Ukrainians fled to Wales using routes opened by the UK and Welsh governments, with many first going to welcome centres, often repurposed hotel buildings like the one where Kateryna and her family lived. Kateryna said she cannot see herself returning to Ukraine soon, adding she was grateful for the support people were still providing to her country. Hundreds of gifts have set off this week from Cowbridge in the Vale of Glamorgan for orphanages, hospitals and refugee centres in Ukraine for Christmas. Kateryna said Russian attacks on Ukrainian power supplies were creating difficulties for the population there - Russia argues its attacks on energy targets are aimed at the Ukrainian military. "Many people are stranded without electricity and towns without water or gas. "Many people in the Ukraine have deserted their homes because the front lines are getting more dangerous, so help is still needed and it's important to talk about it," she said. Amid current tensions around refugees and asylum seekers in the UK, Kateryna said that although she would like to study at Oxford or Cambridge, she was considering applying to universities in Germany or Austria. "I am fortunate enough not to face any direct hostility but the talks of deporting immigrants and possibly terminating support of Ukrainian refugees has worried me," she said. Olena said she was "incredibly proud" of her daughter. "Kateryna works hard and is very focused on her studies - seeing her succeed makes me truly happy and proud every single day. " "But we also want to say thank you to the people of Wales for their support, it is very important to us." The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. A States vote means the default position on solar farms on agricultural land will be to refuse them. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
First comes the warning, that disembodied voice over the tannoy: "Your attention please. Air siren in the city. Please move to the shelter on the minus second floor." Then comes the mosquito-like whine of the incoming Russian drones, massing in their hundreds just above the clouds. It's followed immediately by the rattle of anti-aircraft fire, the distant thud of explosions, then finally the ominous klaxon call of ambulance and fire sirens. This is the grim reality of night time in Kyiv and other cities across Ukraine. These are attack drones that explode on impact. Drones are now an integral part of modern warfare, but they are not confined to the battlefield. Across western Europe, far from Ukraine, unarmed drones have also been found buzzing around airports, military bases and power plants, all part of a suspected programme of "hybrid warfare" being waged by Russia, with some speculating they're arriving to test the resilience of certain Nato countries that are helping Ukraine. Recent drone sightings in Poland, along with a swathe spotted around critical infrastructure across Europe, including in Belgium and Denmark, have sparked fear across some Nato countries. Now, there is talk that a "drone wall" is to be designed to protect parts of Europe - but just how necessary is this, really? And more pertinently, how realistic? On 9 September, around 20 Russian drones overshot Ukraine and flew into Poland, forcing the closure of four airports. Nato jets were scrambled and several of the drones were shot down - the rest crashed across Poland, scattering debris in multiple regions. This was a wake-up call to Europe, marking one of the largest and most serious breaches of Nato airspace since the war in Ukraine began. Which is why discussion about a possible drone wall seems ever more pressing. "This momentum is really driven by these recent incursions," explains Katja Bego, senior research fellow in the international security programme at Chatham House think tank. Drones - or to give them their official title, Uncrewed Aerial Systems (UAS) or Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) - have already transformed the battle space. On the killing fields of eastern Ukraine, they tend to be small short-range ones, typically measuring around just 10 inches, and they carry lethal explosive devices. But these are not currently the threat to the rest of Europe. It is the larger drones - some of which can potentially fly well over 1,000km - that are fuelling calls for a European drone wall. Previously Russia imported a type known as Shahed 136 drones from Iran but now it produces its own version: the Geran 2. Some Gerans were among the drones that flew into Poland in September. So, what, some are now asking, if Russia one day sent over 200 drones? Or, say, 2,000? How would Nato respond - and in fact, could it respond? After all, deploying fighter jets each time would be expensive. André Rogaczewski, CEO of Netcompany, a Danish IT services firm that builds digital systems for European governments, argues: "[It] is neither effective nor a sensible use of taxpayers' money." Ukraine has stepped up its own long-range drone attacks on Russian airports and critical infrastructure like petrochemical plants, bringing the war home to ordinary Russians. Then there are sea drones: uncrewed vessels that can travel either on or below the surface, as used with devastating effect by Ukraine against Russia's Black Sea fleet. But there is something that is in some ways more sinister than clearly identifiable drones used by countries that are openly at war. That is: the plague of mysterious, anonymous drones that have appeared. Sometimes these turn up in the dead of night, around Europe's airports. This includes a suspected drone incursion above Belgium's main airport near Brussels earlier this month. There have also been similar sightings in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Germany and Lithuania. Unlike the clearly identifiable Russian attack drones in Ukraine, these "civilian drones" in Western Europe have not – so far – been armed with any explosives. But being anonymously launched, it's hard to prove where they come from or who activated them - or indeed if they are being launched from passing ships. Suspicions fall on Russia with Western intelligence officials believing Moscow is using proxies to launch these short range drones locally to cause havoc and disruption. The Kremlin denies any responsibility. Belgium is one significant target, as the home to Nato headquarters, the European Union and Euroclear (the financial clearing house that handles trillions of dollars of international transactions). There is an ongoing debate around whether Europe should release around €200bn worth of frozen Russian assets, held in Belgium, to help Ukraine. So is it a coincidence that mystery drones have appeared around Brussels and Liege airports, as well as a military base? The UK has sent a team of counter drone specialists from the RAF Regiment, deployed from RAF Leeming in North Yorkshire, to help bolster Belgium's defences against the drones. Still, the mystery drones are worrying: both because of the danger posed to aircraft as they take off and land but also because of the risk of surveillance, especially around military bases and critical infrastructure such as power plants. The plan for a drone wall is Europe's response to the threat of cross-border incursions by drones launched specifically from Russia. The wall has been described as an integrated, coordinated, multi-layered defence system stretching initially from the Baltic states to the Black Sea. It's likely to comprise a combination of radars, sensors, jamming and weapons systems to detect incoming drones - and then to track and destroy them. EU foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas has said a new anti-drone system should be fully operational by the end of 2027. Not surprisingly, those countries keenest to see it deployed quickly - including Poland and Finland- are those geographically closest to Russia. Katja Bego believes it is necessary - and long overdue. But she adds:  "This is not just about drones. There is really not enough in place in terms of more traditional missile defence, air defence, along the Eastern flank borders." Nonetheless, a drone wall is not a silver bullet for air defence. And others aren't convinced it's entirely realistic. Robert Tollast, a research fellow at Whitehall think tank The Royal United Services Institute (RUSI), argues that the idea of some "sort of impervious wall", is, in his words, out of the question. Yet he can still see why there are calls for it and wants to try. "For countries that are close to the Russian border – the Baltics, Poland, Germany as well because of course they're within range of those long-range drones - it is absolutely essential to try and build something like this," he says. "The idea here would be not so much to actually build a full-on wall, or something that's fully impenetrable", agrees Ms Bego. "It's not really possible - both in terms of the length and also just the available technologies are not 100% foolproof... But rather you're looking at a combination of things that hopefully can capture different types of drones and stop them." Fabian Hinz, a research fellow at The International Institute for Strategic Studies in London describes a whole menu of options to detect drones. "You can have acoustic detection; airborne radars that can detect low flying targets really well; ground-based radars that have very short ranges against low-flying targets but [that] still work really well against high flying targets. "You can have optical systems, infrared systems - and once the detection is done you have either soft kill or hard kill." Hard kill means destroying the drone, either with gunfire or missiles. Soft kill means making an incoming drone ineffective, usually through electronic means. Russia and Ukraine have been able to get around soft kills on the battlefield by packing their drones with tens of kilometres worth of fibre-optic cable that spools out as it flies, but that's not an option for something travelling hundreds of kilometres across borders. As for hard kills, Mr Hinz describes many ways of achieving them: from surface-to-air missiles to fighter jets and helicopters. "You can have lasers which could be useful as well," he adds, "but [these] are not quite the one the wonder weapon people make them out to be." André Rogaczewski believes jamming can be effective as an alternative. Ultimately, however, for any drone wall to be effective, it needs to be able to deal with a wide variety of aerial threats, possibly all coming at once. As tensions between Europe and Russia have risen since Moscow's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, so too have other incidents of so-called "hybrid" or "grey zone" warfare attributed to Russia, which in most cases denies them. These include cyber attacks, disinformation campaigns, incendiary devices inserted into cargo depots, surveillance and sometimes sabotage of undersea cables. And yet at a security forum in Bahrain earlier this month, Admiral Giuseppe Cavo Dragone, the Italian chairperson of Nato's Military Committee, told me that of all Nato's defence needs right now, air defence is the top priority. The first stages of the drone wall are due to be activated within months, though not all details have been finalised. Meanwhile, Nato's Allied Command Transformation (ACT) based in Norfolk, Virginia is working on longer-term solutions. This is not an easy challenge. Mr Tollast says the main challenge of the drone wall is the sheer scale of the area which needs to be protected. "You need a huge range of tactical radars for low flying drones and larger radars for higher altitude targets, across thousands of kilometres. "And you need cost effective interceptors and forces to be ready around the clock. It will never be watertight, and even as costs of some radars and interceptors fall, it's very unlikely to be cheap." The question of finance is a complex one. "It is a really difficult defence question," says Mr Tollast. "Even with rising European defence expenditure, there's still going to be a lot of competition from other sectors in defence [for that funding] - we need more ships, submarines, nuclear weapons even, satellites as well. "So this is why a drone wall will remain this sort of slightly financially controversial issue for some people." It will potentially be funded from a mixture of EU money, national budgets (especially in Eastern Europe) and interest from frozen Russian assets. Initially, says Ms Bego, the drone wall referred to defences across the Eastern flank, but since the the EU has been spearheading this, they've been expanding it. "Everyone recognises something needs to happen and there is a need to co-ordinate this and to mobilise money for this, but the who and what is very much under discussion... "The more foolproof you would want it to be, the more expensive it gets". As for the target date, Mr Tollast believes 2027 is very ambitious - but adds, "they can definitely achieve more protection by then". While all of this is going on, the task of building the wall is becoming ever harder. Because as fast as new counter-drone measures are introduced, up pops a new form of drone threat that can overcome them. This all makes it something of a new arms race. "The development cycles for technologies in this space are hyper-accelerated, above all in conflict environments," says Josh Burch, co-founder of Gallos Technologies, a UK-based company that invests in security technology. "It means that any defence against drones will rapidly be rendered outdated as aggressors adjust. "The aggressor", he concludes, "will observe, adjust, repeat – until they get through". So are we asking the wrong question altogether? Rather than building a drone wall to stop the drones, is it better to target the bases launching the drone themselves - as the old saying goes, shoot the archer, not just the arrow. "It's one thing to become more resilient against it, but it would be much better if it did not happen at all," argues Ms Bego. "And that's really around making it much clearer to Russia, or whichever actor is behind this, that this kind of behaviour crosses the line. It has consequences and comes with the costs for them. And that's important. It should really be part of this." But any suggestion of Nato hitting Russian targets – kinetically, as opposed to digitally in cyberspace – would be incredibly risky and escalatory. Ever since Russia carried out its full-scale invasion of Ukraine on 24 February 2022 the challenge for Nato, and especially its most powerful member the US, has been to help Ukraine to defend itself but without getting drawn into a Nato-Russia war. Building a defensive drone wall in Europe is one thing. Attacking the places where those drones are launched from is quite another. Update 20 November: We have amended a sentence in this report to say there was a suspected drone incursion at Belgium's main airport earlier in November, since there is now doubt over whether the object spotted really was a drone. Top picture credit: Getty Images, Sketchfab BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. You can now sign up for notifications that will alert you whenever an InDepth story is published - click here to find out how. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. One year on, Martyn Hett's mum Figen Murray talks about the changes she has seen at public venues. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A group of volunteers have said it was a logistical nightmare to transport hundreds of items from a closed down care home to a hospital in Ukraine. Milton Keynes-based Help Ukraine BAMK UK Community Interest Company (CIC), was asked to deliver the furniture from a 100-bed home in Hyde, Greater Manchester. Volunteers loaded up a lorry with items including motorised hospital beds, mobility aids, bedding, towels and even a piano. Nataliya Lawson, from the CIC, said it was a much "bigger challenge" than when they collected items from a care home in Towcester, Northamptonshire, in September. Ms Lawson said the group, made up of Ukrainian and British nationals, "succeeded again" despite having to travel 157 miles (253km) to the Hyde care home, run by Cygnet Health. "It took us a while, it was logistically a nightmare," she explained. She said James Baird, a farmer from Littlehampton in West Sussex, offered help along with his son. Mr Baird has fundraised in the past to buy lorries to take to Ukraine, Ms Lawson said. Ms Lawson said many items had to be left behind and she hoped to fundraise for another lorry to take donations to the war-torn country. "It's absolutely wonderful, the amount of help we've had, this war has been going on for over three and a half years," she said. "It's fantastic that people are still interested and want to help after all this time." Ms Lawson said the items were on their way to a small hospital in Zolochiv, west Ukraine. "They will make a real difference," she added. Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. Laura Blundell gives up her annual leave to volunteer with the charity Mercy Ships in West Africa. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. A tribunal judgement says the company should stay closed while investigations are ongoing. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Gatton Park, near Reigate, is celebrating 30 years of work by a team of more than 120 volunteers. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has vowed to "overhaul" state-owned energy companies, after a major corruption scandal engulfed the country's energy sector. Around $100 million (£76m) has been embezzled, anti-graft investigators said, causing outrage in a country where Russian attacks have resulted in crippling power outages. "Alongside a full audit of their financial activities, the management of these companies is to be renewed," Zelensky wrote in a post on X on Saturday. Energoatom, the state nuclear company at the heart of the scandal, will have a new supervisory board "within a week," he added. Several of those implicated in the scandal have close links to the Ukrainian president. The scandal is unfolding against the backdrop of escalating Russian attacks on Ukrainian energy facilities, including substations that supply electricity to nuclear power plants. "I have also instructed government officials to maintain constant and meaningful communication with law enforcement and anti-corruption bodies," Zelensky wrote. He also called for the quick appointment of a new head of Ukrhydroenergo, a hydropower generating company, and reforms for oil and gas giant Naftogaz and the nation's Gas Transmission System Operator. Two ministers were forced to resign over the corruption scheme and a former business partner of Zelensky was sanctioned earlier this week when the scandal broke. On Monday, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine (Nabu) and Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (Sap) said the 15 month-long investigation had revealed several members of the Ukrainian government were involved. Some of those implicated in the scandal are or have been, close associates of Zelensky's. Among those alleged to be involved are Justice Minister Herman Halushchenko, former Deputy Prime Minister Oleksiy Chernyshov and Timur Mindich - a businessman and a co-owner of Zelensky's former TV studio Kvartal95. Zelensky has previously said he is committed to cooperate fully with the anti-corruption investigation. "I have also instructed government officials to maintain constant and meaningful communication with law enforcement and anti-corruption bodies," he said on Saturday. "The full transparency and integrity in the energy sector remain an absolute priority." But the scandal has brought Zelensky's commitment to fighting corruption under scrutiny once again. In July, he faced backlash after he signed a law limiting the independence of Nabu and Sap. The outrage was only quelled by Zelensky's decision to reinstate their freedom, but the debacle prompted criticism from European allies including France and Germany, while ambassadors from the G7 group of nations expressed the desire to discuss the issue with the Ukrainian leadership. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The ongoing conflict in Ukraine is often described as the world's "first drone war". It has led to a continuing huge growth in the production of military drones, both within and outside Ukraine. Before Russia's invasion of Ukraine Kseniia Kalmus was a floral artist. She co-owned a flower shop in Kyiv and travelled around Europe showcasing her floral arrangements. Now, she makes drones for use against the Russians. "It was just an obvious decision for me," she tells the BBC from the Ukrainian capital. "I just wanted to help my country, help my people and the military." Ms Kalmus says that after the war began back in February 2022, she raised money to buy anything the Ukrainian soldiers asked for, from vehicles to medicine and uniforms. But as time went by, the requests from the front line changed. "I realised that all the requests were for FPV [first-person view] drones," she recalled. "So I started raising money for that, specifically, and then I decided to produce them." These days, she and her fellow volunteers churn out hundreds of drones each month – small quadcopters with plastic X-shaped frames and a rotor blade on each corner – the kind of thing you might use to take aerial photographs at your wedding. Strap a small bomb to it though, and it becomes a deadly weapon. Combat drones, delivery drones, surveillance drones, underwater drones – drones have become a key weapon of war globally, whether it be small hand-operated quadcopters, or high-tech military drones that look like small, unmanned aeroplanes and can travel long distances and cause enormous damage on impact. Before 2022 there were just a handful of companies in Ukraine making drones. Now, there are hundreds. Kyiv says that around three-quarters of Russian losses on the battlefield are caused, not by bullets or conventional artillery, but by drones. "This has been the first full-blown drone war," says Stacie Pettyjohn, director of the defence program at the Center for a New American Security in Washington, and the author of several reports on drone warfare. "There are a ton of mom-and-pop shops in Ukraine where people are making drones and assembling them in their apartments, in their garages and donating them to the forces. They've become the go-to weapon for the Ukrainians." And not just the Ukrainians. Drones are increasingly being used in conflicts from the Middle East, to Myanmar and Sudan. "You see European states talking about building drone walls and other countries seeking to acquire drones because they provide them with a cheap form of air power." Ms Pettyjohn says. The world's biggest defence contractors, like Lockheed Martin and Boeing, are taking note, as are smaller drone-makers like US-based AeroVironment, which is listed on the Nasdaq stock exchange. Its share price has soared more than four-fold since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. In Europe, Portugal's Tekever became what is known as a unicorn company this year – valued at more than $1bn (£760m) – and Germany's Stark is expanding its drone-making operations. It is due to open a new factory in Swindon in southwest England at the end of November. Meanwhile, the UK government announced last year that it would be spending £4.5bn on new military drones. "The sector is growing really quickly," said Mike Armstrong, Stark's managing director for the UK. "I think drones are the future of warfare. Legacy systems – artillery, tanks – they all have a place, but what we've seen is a major innovation which is not going away anytime soon." The growth in drone use for military ends has spawned its antithesis – a counter-drone industry. For every drone launched in anger on the battlefield, there is usually someone trying to jam its radio signal or shoot it down. Anti-drone technology is also increasingly being sought by Western nations to protect key infrastructure sites. The Belgian government announced on 7 November that it was urgently trying to acquire drone defences after drone sightings forced it to temporarily close Brussels Airport. Oleg Vornik is the CEO of DroneShield, an Australian counter-drone company. "We make hardware and software that you can carry in your hands, you can put on a vehicle or around the edge of a military base to detect and safely take down small drones," he says. Since 2022, DroneShield's share price has soared 15-fold. "We are the only public-listed counter-drone company around the world, which has helped us," Mr Vornik adds. As well as supplying Ukraine, Mr Vornik says DroneShield is seeing increased interest from countries in the Asian Pacific, worried about China's use of surveillance drones. DroneShield also sells to the governments of Colombia and Mexico, which use its technology to protect facilities from the use of drones by criminal gangs. Munin Dynamics is a much smaller start-up working in the same counter-drone space. Its founder is Magnus Freyer, a former paratrooper in the Norwegian army. "We're building a system that every soldier, whether they are a newly mobilised Ukrainian or an experienced Nato soldier, can use to defend themselves from drones," he says. "It's a small system that you can have a couple of in your vest, to shoot down the drone when it's coming in." Experts say the next big development in drone technology is likely to be driven by artificial intelligence (AI). At the moment, many drones used in conflicts are small, cheap devices that have to be guided to their targets by an operator – a human being with a remote control who needs to be within range of the drone, potentially placing them in danger. But Ms Pettyjohn says that will change. "That is going to be the next real shift. "Right now, really smart artificial intelligence is not very extensive. But you are going to start seeing groups of drones controlled by one operator, and then eventually fully autonomous drones that can collaborate." In the meantime, former floral artist Kseniia Kalmus says she will continue to assemble drones for use on the front line. "I miss flowers very much and I miss that previous life, of course," she says. "A lot of my friends, me as well, changed totally, from flower artists or from dancers to drone producers. "But this is a question of existence. We just fight for our country, for our existence, for our culture." On the tech giant's 50th year, we ask analysts to give their top three Apple successes and misses A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. It's been nominated for two Bafta Games Awards - but why have mundane job games like PowerWash Simulator 2 become so popular? The US president said he'll bring Iran "back to the Stone Age" but gave no detail on ending the war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Russian drone has slammed into a block of flats in eastern Kyiv, killing six people and wounding dozens of others, during a wave of strikes throughout the Ukrainian capital. As emergency workers sifted through the wreckage in the Lisovyi area, one Kyiv resident called Vita described how the drone had pierced the building, exploding on the other side. Meanwhile, Ukraine stepped up its attacks on Russia's oil infrastructure, with drone strikes on one of its biggest export terminals in Novorossiysk, on the Black Sea coast. Fire broke out at the Sheskharis oil refinery, and a ship and a block of flats were hit, officials said. Krasnodar governor Veniamin Kondratyev said three crew members and another man were hurt in the attack which damaged the main oil depot and a container terminal. Mayor Andrei Kravchenko declared a state of emergency and Reuters reported that oil exports were suspended. President Volodymyr Zelensky said Ukraine had fired long-range "Long Neptune" cruise missiles during its attacks on Russia overnight, without specifying what they targeted. Condemning Russia's overnight attacks as vile and calculated, Zelensky said about 430 drones and 18 missiles had been launched and dozens of high-rise buildings damaged. "This was a deliberately calculated attack aimed at causing maximum harm to people and civilian infrastructure," he said. A drone attack on a market at Chornomorsk in the south of the country killed two people. In Kyiv, residential buildings came under attack "in practically every district", the head of the city's military administration Tymur Tkachenko said on Telegram. He issued a warning to take shelter a minute after midnight local time on Thursday night, writing "it's loud in Kyiv". The fire service in the Lisovyi neighbourhood said later the drone had hit the seventh floor of the residential building. When it exploded all the floors - from the eighth down to the fourth - collapsed, a spokesman told the BBC. Vita said she saw four bodies being pulled out of the apartment a few doors down from hers: "I saw it with my own eyes." Two cranes hoisted emergency workers outside the block, as crews combed through the destroyed building, throwing broken sections of wall and shattered glass to the ground. Falling debris and fires damaged several high-rise apartment buildings, a hospital, school and administrative buildings, according to emergency services. More than 40 people were rescued, they added, including 14 from a fire in a residential building. Another person was rescued after being pulled from beneath the rubble, they said. Kyiv's energy infrastructure was badly hit, leaving some buildings in the capital without heat, officials said. "The attack was massive, with drones, with ballistic [missiles], with lots of air defence working," Ukrainian MP Lisa Yasko told the BBC. "Very often there was the feeling that your bed was just shaking  together with the windows." Medical teams were deployed to all fires, officials said, while Mayor Vitali Klitschko said nine people were being treated in hospital with one man in an "extremely serious condition". Ukraine's air force warned drones and guided bombs had been targeting several other regions, including Sumy. The overnight strikes follow the deaths of six people in another Russian offensive less than a week ago that also damaged residential buildings and energy infrastructure. Russia says its attacks on energy targets - now a familiar part of the war - are aimed at the Ukrainian military, although Kyiv has long rejected that claim. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
In her Soviet-era apartment block on the outskirts of eastern Kyiv, Oksana Zinkovska-Boyarska lives with daily power cuts. The lift to her eighth-floor apartment often stops, the lights go out and sometimes the pumps maintaining pressure in the gas central heating fail. She has a big rechargeable battery pack to keep appliances going, but it costs €2,000 (£1,770) and it only lasts so long. Her husband Ievgen, a lawyer, often has to work by torchlight. Their two-year-old daughter Katia plays by candlelight too. Amid air raids and cold darkness, Oksana says she and Ievgen worry constantly for Katia. "I can't describe with words the animal fear when you take your child to the shelter during the explosions. "I have never felt anything like that in my life and I wouldn't want anyone to feel anything like that. The thought that she might be scared because there's no light - this is terrible." All across Ukraine, families are bracing themselves for even tougher times ahead - a long, cold winter in which Russian President Vladimir Putin attempts to finish off his invasion by striking Ukraine's power supplies and networks. Just last weekend, a massive drone and missile strike left much of the country for a time without power. Ukrainians are now enduring regular power cuts of up to 16 hours a day. In winter, temperatures in Ukraine can plummet as low as -20C. One senior government figure told me they expect the next few months to be brutal. "I think it will be the worst winter of our history," says the official. "Russia will destroy our energy, our infrastructure, our heating. All state institutions should be prepared for the worst scenario." Maxim Timchenko, the chief executive of DTEK, a large private energy company in Ukraine, says: "Based on the intensity of attacks for the past two months, it is clear Russia is aiming for the complete destruction of Ukraine's energy system." But according to one European envoy, it's not just about people being cold at night or without light - there is more to Russia's strategy. "[This] is also about them not getting any bread from the bakery in the morning and not being able to go to work because there is no power for the factory," says the envoy. As the official puts it: "The goal of the Russians is to kill our economy." So how exactly will this strategy play out? And given that almost four years of war have taken their toll, what does it mean for Ukraine's people - and the future of this long, hard war? On the front line, the news is bleak. There are growing signs that the key eastern city of Pokrovsk may fall, giving Russian forces a boost in morale and a fresh platform to seize more of the Donetsk region. Another issue that could impact morale is a massive corruption scandal affecting the government. Prosecutors have accused ministers and officials of taking kickbacks from contracts to build defensive structures around Ukraine's nuclear plants. Both of the ministers accused deny the allegations. But the risk for President Zelensky is that Ukrainians, many of whom are living in the cold and the dark, may lose trust in the administration. What's more, for now, diplomatic efforts to end the war appear to be on hold. Plans of a summit between Putin and US President Donald Trump are on the back burner after Moscow refused to budge from its maximalist war aims and the US imposed sanctions on Russian oil and gas. "There is currently a pause," a Kremlin spokesman said this week, "the situation is stalled." All the while, European nations squabble over what to do with €180bn (£160bn) in frozen Russian assets. They plan to use the cash to raise a so-called "repatriation loan" for Ukraine, repaid only if Russia ever pays reparations after the end of the war. But a row over how to share the risk has left Kyiv's coffers looking distinctly bare. Yet it is the energy crisis that is worrying the Ukrainian government most, according to those I spoke to. "People are tired after four years of the war," the official tells me. "I am afraid they will be demotivated." Walk the streets of Kyiv and you'll pass a sea of tired faces - people's eyes are red from a lack of sleep, their rest broken by the air raid sirens. "I am tired of not sleeping enough," says Yana Kolomiets, 31, a casting director from Odesa. "But... people who fight on the front line are tired [too]." A recent scientific study suggested that people are three times more likely to suffer from insomnia in Ukraine than in countries at peace. It tracked the sleep patterns of around 100 Ukrainians over six months, and found the insomnia persisted even on quiet nights. (The research was published by Texty, a data journalism website based in Ukraine.) There have not been many quiet nights. Russia launched vast numbers of ballistic missiles at Ukraine in October - some 268 in all, the highest monthly total since the full-scale invasion, according to analysis published by the Oboz news site. The same month Russia launched 5,298 Shahed and other bomber drones. Diplomats suggest there is a geographic focus to Russia's tactics, their strikes deliberately targeting gas and electricity transmission networks in eastern Ukraine, rather than power stations in the west of the country. "They are trying to cut Ukraine in two in terms of energy," one European envoy says. "They want anywhere east of the river Dnipro to be cold this winter." The aim, one government source told me, is to "instigate an insurrection, so that people go against the government in Kyiv… they are trying to destroy social cohesion." So concerned is the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs it has already issued a formal warning, saying "the approaching winter poses new risks for Ukrainians... as intensified attacks on energy networks undermine efforts to maintain warmth in homes, schools and health centres". Uncertainty over the outcome of the various diplomatic initiatives hasn't helped, either. And yet opinion polls suggest people in Ukraine may in fact be more hopeful, not less. Research by the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology, a pollster, suggested that in October 56% of 1,008 Ukrainians interviewed felt optimistic about the country's future, up from 43% in May. Sasha, a Kyiv-based financier, explains that Ukrainian morale is volatile, swinging wildly between optimism and pessimism. "If people talk about an end to the war, they feel hopeful," he says. "But then when the talks fail, they despair." Oksana, though, is pragmatic: she says that for all the fears for her daughter, they have no choice but to endure it. "I always think it is much worse at the front line," she adds. "There are boys and girls on the front line who suffer much, much more. "I understand my child should not be raised in these conditions, because it is not normal in the civilised world. But we can hold on for as long as the front needs it." Earlier this week, thick fog enabled Russian troops to move further into Pokrovsk. The news out of the city is bleak with daily reports of Russian advances. If it fell, it would be the first major city seized by Russia since Avdiivka in February 2024. But Russian forces would still only be about 25 miles (40km) from where they began their full scale invasion in 2022, land gained at the cost of hundreds of thousands of lives. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says the Russian high command is throwing so much at Pokrovsk not just because it is tactically significant, but because Putin wants a victory he can "sell" diplomatically to the White House. The Russians hope to convince President Trump they are making battlefield gains that will put pressure on Kyiv to sue for peace. Vadym Prystaiko, Ukraine's former foreign minister and ambassador in London, said Russia wanted to "force this feeling among Europe and westerners – as Russian propagandists have done before – that you can't do anything with Russia, you can't defeat Mother Russia. "They hope that our partners will force us to lose face and sign the Russian deal, whatever that is." When I asked President Zelensky if his people could survive the coming winter at a recent press conference, he was clear about the scale of the challenge. "I don't know what winter will be but we have to prepare in any case," he answered. "We understand what we have to do, we understand what we need and our partners also know from us what, in the case of difficulties, what volume of electricity we have to import." Ukraine imports gas from across Europe, including Poland, Hungary, and Slovakia. But it also has massive storage facilities which Russia could target. Oleksandr Kharchenko, director of the Energy Industry Research Centre, says Ukraine is well placed to protect its energy supply from Russian attacks. "We are better trained, we know how to act, we have no panic," he says. "We have an understanding of what to do if something is damaged. It will be complicated, it will be a hard winter, there will be a lot of outages but it will be manageable." Ukraine's prime minister is confident. Yulia Svyrydenko said Russia's goal was "to plunge Ukraine into darkness. Ours is to preserve the light." Nonetheless, this may be harder to achieve if Trump focuses on other matters and turns his attention away from Ukraine - likewise if European voters elect governments that are less supportive of Kyiv and cannot wean themselves off Russian energy. The danger is that war fatigue will overcome strategic patience. But for all the bleak realism of the official government source, even he remains confident. "This winter is the last opportunity for the Russians to defeat us," he said. "And if we make it to 1 April, we will win the war." I asked one western diplomat why Ukrainians were so unyielding. "They are just bloody-minded," the envoy said, and pointed to Ukraine's long history of withstanding hardship. "They say they have survived the Germans, the Poles, the Turks, the Lithuanians and now they can survive the Russians." And yet for many in Ukraine, life is going on as usual - or as usual as it can. At the Dynamo Stadium in Kyiv, beneath the floodlights, a game of football is being played - Dynamo Kyiv versus Shakhtar Donetsk. It's a rough, partisan game where the hardcore fans, known as ultras, wear masks and chant at their opponents. One of the few signs that this is taking place in a city at war is the number of people there: the stadium can seat more than 16,000 people but only 4,300 fans are allowed in, owing to the capacity of the stadium's bomb shelters. The fans have come from all parts of society – young and old, families and friends. Servicemen and women are there too, earning applause from the crowds, who part to let them pass through. "It's really important to continue to live," says Anatoliy Anatolich, the match announcer, a TV and social media host. In his view, coming to the football in itself is an act of defiance. "[It shows] everyone that we are not going to leave our country in this hard period… We've got to be here when we win." Five minutes before the end of the match, the chanting suddenly stops. The fans put their hands on their hearts and sing the national anthem. Soon the whole stadium was singing as one; a crowd divided by teams, but united by country. Top image credit: AFPGetty Images BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. You can now sign up for notifications that will alert you whenever an InDepth story is published - click here to find out how. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's energy and justice ministers have resigned in the wake of a major investigation into corruption in the country's energy sector. President Volodymyr Zelensky called for Energy Minister Svitlana Grynchuk and Justice Minister Herman Halushchenko's removal on Wednesday. On Monday anti-corruption bodies accused several people of orchestrating a embezzlement scheme in the energy sector worth about $100m (£76m), including at the national nuclear operator Enerhoatom. Some of those implicated in the scandal are - or have been - close associates of Zelensky's. The allegation is that Justice Minister Herman Halushchenko and other key ministers and officials received payments from contractors building fortifications against Russian attacks on energy infrastructure. Among those alleged to be involved are former Deputy Prime Minister Oleksiy Chernyshov and Timur Mindich - a businessman and a co-owner of Zelensky's former TV studio Kvartal95. He has since reportedly fled the country. Halushchenko said he would defend himself against the accusations, while Grynchuk said on social media: "Within the scope of my professional activities there were no violations of the law." The National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine (Nabu) and Specialised Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office (Sap) said the investigation - which was 15 months in the making and involved 1,000 hours of audio recordings - uncovered the participation of several members of the Ukrainian government. According to Nabu, the people involved systematically collected kickbacks from Enerhoatom contractors worth between 10% and 15% of contract values. The anti-corruption bodies also said the huge sums had been laundered in the scheme and published photographs of bags full of cash. The funds were then transferred outside Ukraine, including to Russia, Nabu said. Prosecutors alleged that the scheme's proceeds were laundered through an office in Kyiv linked to the family of former Ukrainian lawmaker and current Russian senator Andriy Derkach. Nabu has been releasing new snippets of its investigation and wiretaps every day and on Tuesday it promised more would come. The scandal is unfolding against the backdrop of escalating Russian attacks on Ukrainian energy facilities, including substations that supply electricity to nuclear power plants. It will also shine a spotlight on corruption in Ukraine, which continues to be endemic despite work by Nabu and Sap in the 10 years since they were created. In July, nationwide protests broke out over changes curbing the independence of Nabu and Sap. Ukrainians feared the nation could lose the coveted status of EU candidate country which it was granted on condition it mounted a credible fight against corruption. Kyiv's European partners also expressed severe alarm at the decision, with ambassadors from the G7 group of nations expressing the desire to discuss the issue with the Ukrainian leadership. The backlash was the most severe to hit the Ukrainian government since the start of Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022 and was only quelled by Zelensky's decision to reinstate the freedom of the two anti-corruption bodies. Yet for some that crisis brought into question Zelensky's dedication to anti-corruption reforms. The latest scandal threatens to lead to more awkward questions for the Ukrainian president. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The funeral of Irish man Alex Ryzhuk, who was killed in Ukraine last year, will take place on Wednesday in the western Ukrainian village of Kryliv. The 20-year-old, who was born in Dublin to Ukrainian parents, had been serving alongside military forces in east Ukraine as a volunteer when he went missing in August 2024 and was presumed dead. Last week, DNA tests commissioned by his family confirmed remains returned from the frontlines were his, according to Irish broadcaster RTÉ. A memorial mass will be held on 23 November at Donnycarney Church in Dublin. He had left Ireland for Ukraine soon after his 18th birthday. Mr Ryzhuk was the fourth Irish man to die fighting in the war in Ukraine. A number of people from the island of Ireland have died in the war since it began in February 2022. A wreath was laid by the Irish President Catherine Connolly at the General Post Office (GPO) in the Irish capital and in Belfast thousands of people turned out for a parade in the west of the city. Does the island have a problem with the Irish language or more specifically the spelling of words in Irish? A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. The incident happened at 15:00 local time at Station Roundabout, Port Road, Letterkenny. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Thick fog has enabled Russian troops to move further into the key strategic city of Pokrovsk in eastern Ukraine. Ukraine's 7th Airborne Assault Corps says weather conditions, particularly dense fog, have prompted Moscow to intensify its bid to get increasing numbers into the ruined city and encircle Ukrainian forces. Russian forces have spent more than a year trying to seize the city. Ukraine's military says there may now be 300-500 Russians there and President Voloydymyr Zelensky says the situation remains difficult. Meanwhile, army chief Oleksandr Syrskyi says the situation on the front line in the southeastern Zaporizhzhia region has "significantly worsened", with the loss of three settlements. Syrskyi said however that Russia was most active around Pokrovsk. A video has gone viral on social media showing Russian soldiers openly driving through a hazy road on civilian cars and motorbikes. The BBC has verified the location where the video was filmed as the southern outskirts of the town on the Selidove-Pokrovsk highway. For several days fog obscured visibility to carry out aerial reconnaissance, says a drone pilot from the "Shershni Dovbusha" unit of the 68th brigade with the call-sign "Goose". That's why, he told the BBC, the Russians had even "dared" to launch assaults using a column of vehicles, which would normally have been wiped out immediately by Ukrainian drones. The Ukrainian drone pilot told the BBC his unit had regularly detected and eliminated small Russian groups trying to advance on foot and on motor bikes.  He added they were also involved in repelling the attack featured in the viral video, said to have been filmed on Sunday. The convoy was partly destroyed, "Goose" claims, however weather conditions meant there was no video monitoring of the moment they repelled the attack so he was not sure if the entire group was hit. A week ago, Zelensky estimated that up to 300 Russian soldiers were fighting in Pokrovsk. The video suggests those numbers have probably increased in that time and the military confirmed that on Wednesday, with southern areas of the city now under Russian occupation. Russian troops appear to be closing in on most areas of Pokrovsk, according to mapping by the Ukraine-based DeepState monitoring group. Some observers say that its fall is imminent. Most parts of the city are now in a grey zone that neither side fully controls, says "Goose". "We might hold positions in one building, but the enemy can be in the next one. They're trying to get behind our backs," he says. Moscow is trying to encircle Pokrovsk and neighbouring Myrnohrad in what is known as a "cauldron". Even if the "lid" is not closed, Russians can constantly target all routes in and out of it using FPV drones. To prevent such an encirclement, Ukrainian troops have pushed Russian troops back from Suvorove and Rodynske on the eastern part of the "cauldron", creating a bigger gap between Russian flanks. Russian forces are trying to cut off logistical routes supporting Ukrainian troops in Pokrovsk. They attack supply routes, not only remotely using drones and artillery but also by sending in soldiers on the ground, the Ukrainian drone pilot told the BBC. This tactic is called infiltration and it has proved quite successful, says Ukrainian military analyst Kostyantyn Mashovets. He argues that Russian forces have specifically targeted Ukrainian FPV pilots so they do not have sufficient resources to detect the movement of smaller Russian groups. In an urban environment, Russian soldiers sometimes infiltrate by dressing up as locals or as Ukrainian military, says Mashovets.  Their main goal is to cause chaos among Ukrainian defenders, which is then followed by a push from the main forces of the Russian army, he adds. The Kremlin is also trying to push in other parts of the front line – in Kupyansk in the north-east and in Zapporizhzhya region in the south. Viktor Tregubov, spokesperson of the Joint Forces Operation, denied Moscow's claim that they had managed to surround Kupyansk but admitted that Russian troops were present in the south of the town and the situation was difficult. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Ukrainian former military officer is on the 10th day of a hunger strike in an Italian prison, where he has accused the authorities of mistreating him to make him confess to blowing up Russia's Nord Stream gas pipelines under the Baltic Sea in 2022. Serhiy Kuznetsov was detained in Italy in August on an arrest warrant from Germany. In a letter shown to the BBC by his lawyer, Mr Kuznetsov says he is being treated as "criminal no.1", held in a high-security facility alongside suspected members of so-called Islamic State (IS or Isis). The BBC has contacted the prison, but it has not yet commented. No-one has admitted carrying out the attack on the pipelines carrying Russian gas to Germany. In his first public comment since his arrest, Mr Kuznetsov writes - by hand - that "the Italians have been cynically ignoring my dietary habits for the past two months" - a reference to his vegetarian diet. "They think that these restrictions can affect my position, and make me confess my guilt. But such efforts are futile." A relative of Mr Kuznetsov's told me they had tried to deliver special food to the prison, but had been refused - and they were worried that he seemed "exhausted". The Nord Stream pipelines were destroyed deep beneath the Baltic Sea at the beginning of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. It was a high profile and controversial attack. Many initially suspected Russian involvement and an attempt by Moscow to blackmail Europe by restricting its energy supplies. But this summer, German prosecutors activated arrest warrants for two of the men they suspect of carrying out the attack: Serhiy Kuznetsov and a second Ukrainian citizen, Volodymyr Zhuravlyov, who was detained in Poland. German prosecutors have cited charges of "anti-constitutional sabotage" as a basis for the extradition requests. A judge in Warsaw ruled against Mr Zhuravlyov's extradition, saying that, if Ukrainians were involved, such an attack would count as legitimate self-defence in a "bloody, genocidal war". In Italy, by contrast, a court in Bologna last month approved Serhiy Kuznetsov's extradition in a closed hearing. He is currently appealing against that ruling for a second time. "He told me he had lost 9kg when I said that his clothes were hanging loosely," the Ukrainian's lawyer, Nicola Canestrini, said, after visiting his client on hunger strike. The lawyer said Kuznetsov was refusing all solid food but was "doing fine and is clear of mind". Serhiy Kuznetsov complains in his letter about having to exercise in isolation and under armed guard and being subjected to "maximum restrictions". His lawyer told the BBC that he himself felt that Mr Kuznetsov had been "abandoned" by the Ukrainian government "like an old boot". "He was in the army, so they should know was he there or not? If he was there, they should protect him - if not, they should protect him as well," he argues, referring to the attack. Ukrainian officials have always denied any involvement. They declined to comment again recently when approached by the BBC. On Sunday, the human rights ombudsman in Kyiv, Dmytro Lubinets, said an adviser was looking into the case and would check on the prison conditions. In his letter, Mr Kuznetsov says that he understands that his government "currently has more important matters to attend to, searching for an end to the war". He ends on a patriotic note, writing: "I love Ukraine very much and am happy to have the honour of being an officer in its armed forces." His final appeal hearing in Italy is due in the next couple of weeks. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least six people have died after Russia launched hundreds of missile and drone attacks on energy infrastructure and residential targets in Ukraine overnight. A strike on an apartment building in the city of Dnipro killed two people and wounded 12, while three died in Zaporizhzhia. In all, 25 locations across Ukraine, including the capital city Kyiv, were hit, leaving many areas without electricity and heating. Prime Minister Yulia Svyrydenko said on Telegram that major energy facilities were damaged in the Poltava, Kharkiv and Kyiv regions, and work was under way to restore power. In Russia, the defence ministry said its forces had shot down 79 Ukrainian drones overnight. The Ukrainian air force said Russia had launched more than 450 exploding bomber drones and 45 missiles. Nine missiles and 406 drones were reportedly shot down. The Ukrainian Energy Ministry said there were power cuts in the Dnipropetrovsk, Chernihiv, Zaporizhzhya, Odesa and Kirovohrad regions, but restoration work was ongoing. Svyrydenko said critical infrastructure facilities have already been reconnected, and water supply is being maintained using generators. Russia argues its attacks on energy targets are aimed at the Ukrainian military. Russian attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure ahead of winter are now a familiar part of this war. But ministers in Kyiv are acutely concerned that Moscow is not just trying to damage the morale of Ukraine's people but also bring its economy to a standstill by collapsing its energy network. Analysts say this fourth winter of Russia's full scale invasion will prove a significant test of Ukraine's defensive resilience. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky said the attacks showed there must be "no exceptions" to Western sanctions on Russian energy as a way of putting pressure on Moscow. The missile strikes came only hours after the US gave Hungary a one-year exemption from restrictions on buying oil and gas from Russia. In October, the US effectively blacklisted two of Russia's largest oil companies, threatening sanctions on those who buy from them. But on Friday, during a visit to Washington by Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban - a close personal and political ally of Donald Trump - the US president  announced the exemption for Budapest. In a message on Telegram, Zelensky said the overnight attacks showed that "pressure must be intensified" on Russia. He said "for every Moscow strike on energy infrastructure - aimed at harming ordinary people before winter - there must be a sanctions response targeting all Russian energy, with no exceptions". He said Ukraine expected "relevant decisions from the US, Europe and the G7". Debates about sanctions can sometimes seem technical or diplomatic. But for people in Ukraine, they are very real. If Russia can sell its oil to Hungary, it can use the money earned to build more drones and missiles, like those it launched against Ukraine on Friday night. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
I've never heard an audience so silent. When the credits rolled on a screening of 2000 metres to Andriivka, no-one in the Kyiv cinema moved. Their popcorn and beer were mostly untouched. The documentary by Mstyslav Chernov is a frontline film so intense you feel like you're trapped in the terrifying trenches alongside the soldiers. Watching that in Ukraine, a country under fire, the intensity is multiplied. At the start of Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022, as society mobilised to defend itself, Ukraine had little capacity for culture. Venues were closed or repurposed, some were attacked, and artists became refugees or soldiers. Almost four years on, the arts are back - but everything is now permeated by the war. The change struck me on a recent trip to Kyiv. I realised that city walls were plastered with two kinds of poster: fundraisers for forces on the frontline - or films, plays and exhibitions about the war. Andriivka wasn't the only hard hitting film on offer: there were also ads for Cuba and Alaska, another powerful documentary that follows two female combat medics in a way that manages to be funny, frightening and tragic at the same time. There was unflinching photography, too. The old Lenin Museum, now Ukrainian House, was hosting a giant retrospective of the work of documentary photographer Oleksandr Glyadelov. Stretched over three floors of the spiralling modernist building, his images captured the span of Ukraine's struggle for independence: 35 years trying to wrest itself from Russian control. In the section devoted to 2022 and beyond, he'd displayed his photos of victims' bodies on the ground to look like graves. Some I talked to in Kyiv shy away from all of this. War is their reality: it's what keeps them up at night, with the air defence guns and missile warnings. It's all over their social media feeds and it's in their fears for friends and family who are fighting. It is the last thing they want more of, on stage or screen. But others are clearly drawn to it. Andriivka is Chernov's latest production after his film from besieged Mariupol won an Oscar. His focus this time is a 2km-long strip of land in eastern Ukraine. The soldiers call it a forest, though it's just a line of scraggy trees separating them from Russian positions. Their mission is to cross it and reclaim Andriivka, hanging Ukraine's national flag on the ruins. So the men in the trenches dart between foxholes, guided by soldiers in the rear who monitor from drones and warn of any threat they see. They control the real-life troops as in a computer game but their faces are stony, their focus total. The soldiers' lives depend on them. When it's over, the audience around me seem stunned. "Someone I know was in this movie, a soldier, and he died," Yulia shares, when people eventually file out into the foyer. She says it was a tough watch. "I think we have to do it, though. We can't forget them." An older man openly admits he'd viewed the film through tears. "Some moments were really, really hard," Taras says. But he's sure such films are necessary. "Maybe people will realise that Ukraine needs all the help possible to end this," Taras argues. "So many people have been killed because we refuse to be what we're not. We are not Russian." It's not only the "serious" arts tackling the war these days. Musicals, the ultimate form of escapism, are in on the act too. Just over the road from the cinema, I spotted a banner for the latest offering from the Kyiv Opera: Patriot, a rock opera in two acts. "It's the story of any one of us," the director explains, one that takes the hero on a journey through Ukraine's recent history - from revolution to war. All the songs are hugely popular anthems of Ukrainian independence so the audience on premiere night whooped along, swept to their feet at times. There were cheers for the policeman on stage in a fat suit doing pelvic thrusts, and the woman in a leotard and tights shredding a portrait of Vladimir Putin. It was all a million miles from the films watched in silence across the road. But director Petro Kachanov told me that even musical theatre has a mission now. "We have to do everything to demonstrate that Russia is our age-old enemy," he was candid. "The Russians are not our brothers. They are killing our people. They want to take away our freedom and we must say this." His team had pressured him to give the show a happy ending for a public exhausted by four years of open war, but he refused. "This play is a tribute to those who died in this war," he told me. "And we cannot think about our own comfort when the best sons of Ukraine are dying." The same ethos is driving the current "explosion" of documentaries. Since February 2022, TV news channels in Ukraine have toed the official line and told reassuring stories in the name of unity. But independent filmmakers zoom in on the hardship. "People who want to know truth, they go to the cinema," film expert Olha Birzul is blunt. She says that role was "born on the Maidan", shorthand for the mass protests in 2014 that eventually swept a pro-Russian president from power. When crowds then occupied Kyiv's main square, those who could film began recording everything. "So when the full-scale invasion happened, they were ready." Ultimately, the films they are producing today are heroic tales: the enemy and the cause are clear. But they also expose the harshest of realities of this war and its true cost. Olha's own husband was killed fighting in 2022 and, for her, such films are a way of recording Ukrainians' sacrifice and honouring their memory. "It's a form of justice," she says. "We would really like to watch other movies – maybe some comedies or some drama," is how one filmgoer, Natalia, put it on her way out of a screening of Cuba and Alaska. "Of course I don't want to watch these movies, but I have to, like everyone else. Because it's our history and it's our present day." Additional reporting by Mariana Matveichuk and Anastasia Levchenko. The church art by a Jewish refugee was partly painted over by "a well-meaning priest" in the 1980s. Margot Lord, from Haslemere, will be able to choose an art piece worth £2,500 as part of her win. John Paul-Stonard says the discovery of the artist's practice work for The Cornfield is "significant". Scott Duffin puts his Coventry memorabilia trove on public display, after five years of collecting. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Ukrainian court has handed down the first jail sentence for life against a Russian soldier accused of killing a Ukrainian prisoner of war. Dmitry Kurashov, 27, was found guilty of shooting dead Vitalii Hodniuk, a veteran 41-year-old Ukrainian soldier who had surrendered following capture in 2024. Ukraine's national police said that "expert reports, witness testimony and video footage from the scene confirmed that the Russian soldier deliberately killed the POW on the orders of his commanders, who had instructed troops not to take Ukrainian soldiers captive". In a months-long trial which began earlier this year, the court heard how Kurashov's unit stormed a Ukrainian position in the region of Zaporizhzhia on the morning of 6 January 2024. The prosecution said that although Hodniuk crawled out of a dugout unarmed and surrendered, Kurashov shot him point-blank with several aimed AK-47 shots – a violation of the laws of war. Kurashov and the rest of his unit were later overpowered by Ukrainian forces and taken as prisoners of war. Kurashov initially pleaded guilty but later retracted, saying he had only done so to expedite the trial in the hope that he would be released in a prisoner swap. He maintained it was a Russian medic – who later died – who fired the shots that killed Hodniuk. His version was refuted by other members of his own unit who were later captured by Ukrainian troops and were also being held as prisoners of war. They said they saw Hodniuk emerge from the foxhole unarmed with his hands up after Kurashov called for Ukrainians to come out of their foxholes and surrender. Although they did not witness the shooting because there were explosions at the same moment, all three said nobody but Kurashov had been around when they heard the gunshots. One said the medic accused by Kurashov was not present on the scene when the killing occurred. Kurashov himself never testified. According to court reporters, his lawyer Anna Karpenko said her client "sincerely repented" and that he believed he had simply been following orders from above not to take any prisoners. Nikita Manevsky, the prosecutor who pushed for the harshest sentence, had argued Kurashov had showed "no remorse" and "nothing but indifference" during the trial. Earlier this year, Kurashov told the BBC he had joined the Storm V assault unit in exchange for early release from a remote penal colony in Russia where he was serving a sentence for theft. Representatives from the Russian military told the convicts that if they joined the army and went to Ukraine their sentences would be expunged, Kurashov said. The recruitment of prisoners to fight in the war in Ukraine – which Russia calls a "special military operation" – is a known practice. Convicts who sign up are sent to join the generally poorly trained Storm V penal military units. Its troops are often employed to join "meat grinder" assaults on the front line – a tactic which sees waves of soldiers push forward relentlessly to try to wear down Ukrainian forces and expose their locations to Russian artillery. In May the Ukrainian intelligence directorate (HUR) said it had recorded more than 150 cases of "battlefield executions" of POWs by Russian soldiers since Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Last year the head of the War Department at the Ukrainian Prosecutor-General's Office told the BBC that the killing of prisoners of war by Russian forces had "clear signs of being part of a policy" as they were happening across vast areas. Ukrainian forces have also been accused of killing Russian prisoners of war, but the number of such claims has been much smaller. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
South Africa's government says it has received distress calls from 17 citizens who have joined mercenary forces in the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The men are between the ages of 20 and 39 years and are trapped in Ukraine's war-torn Donbas region. President Cyril Ramaphosa has "ordered an investigation into the circumstances that led to the recruitment of these young men into these seemingly mercenary activities," a government spokesman said. The statement did not say which side of the conflict the South Africans were fighting for. Working as a mercenary or fighting on behalf of another government is illegal in South Africa, unless the government authorises it. The men were lured to join the mercenary forces under the pretext of lucrative contracts, the government said. Spokesman Vincent Magwenya added the South African government was working through "diplomatic channels" to secure their return. Magwenya said 16 of the men were from KwaZulu-Natal and one from the Eastern Cape. "President Ramaphosa and the South African government strongly condemn the exploitation of young vulnerable people by individuals working with foreign military entities," he added. South Africa has an unemployment rate of more than 30%, and is even higher among young people, making them vulnerable for recruitment, analysts say. The BBC has found evidence to suggest the Kremlin is working to expand its sphere of influence in Africa. Africa Corps, a Russian mercenary group controlled by the Russian Ministry of Defence, has effectively replaced the rival military group Wagner in West Africa, after its leader Yevgeny Prigozhin was killed in a plane crash. In August, the South African government issued a warning to young women not to fall for social media recruitment opportunities promoting jobs abroad, particularly in Russia. A BBC investigation found young women had been taken to the Alabuga Special Economic Zone in the Republic of Tatarstan in Russia to work in a drones factory. It is estimated more than 1,000 women have been recruited from across Africa and South Asia to work in Alabuga's weapons factories. In September, Kenyan police said they had rescued more than 20 people from a suspected trafficking ring that had lured them with job offers in Russia but intended to send them to fight in Ukraine. Ukraine has previously said that it was holding citizens of various countries - Somalia, Sierra Leone, Togo, Cuba and Sri Lanka - at prisoner-of-war camps. Ukraine has also previously come in for criticism for trying to recruit foreign nationals, including Africans, to fight on its side. In 2022, Senegal's foreign ministry said it had summoned Kyiv's ambassador to demand the withdrawal of an embassy post on Facebook urging foreigners to enlist for its war effort. At the time, Nigeria also warned that it would not tolerate Ukraine's recruitment drive, forcing it to back-pedal. Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Cameroon's President Paul Biya, 93, won his eighth successive term last year in a disputed election. The fuel cost is nearly double what the government budgeted for putting pressure on stretched finances. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. People evicted to build Nigeria's capital accuse the government of failing to fulfill its promises to them. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says he has visited troops near the town of Pokrovsk, where the fiercest front line battle between Russia and Ukraine is currently taking place. Zelensky posted photos showing him meeting personnel at a command post in the Dobropillya sector, some 20km (12 miles) north of Pokrovsk in the Donetsk region. Kyiv's top military commander, Oleksandr Syrskiy, said on Monday that Ukraine was increasing pressure on the Dobropillya front to "force the enemy to disperse its forces and make it impossible to concentrate their main efforts in the Pokrovsk area". Russia has been trying to seize Pokrovsk - a strategic frontline town and logistic hub - for over a year. Although it has taken them months to approach the town's borders, Russian soldiers have now infiltrated it and on Friday, Zelensky said Russia had amassed 170,000 troops on its outskirts. Both Ukraine and Russia continue to issue claims and counter claims on the situation in and around Pokrovsk. Capturing Pokrovsk could give Moscow access to the rest of Donetsk, including the towns Kramatorsk, Slovyansk, Kostyantynivka and Druzhkivka - the so-called "fortress belt". Gen Syrskiy, acknowledged his troops were withstanding the "pressure of a multi-thousand enemy grouping" but denied they were encircled. Meanwhile, Russian military bloggers claimed 90% of Pokrovsk was under Moscow's control. Unverified videos posted on social media show instances of close quarter combat, drone attacks and street battles there. The US-based Institute for the Study of War (ISW) said that Russian forces were operating with "increasing comfort" within the town, which once had a population of 60,000 but has now been almost entirely emptied of civilians and largely destroyed. Further east, Moscow's troops are also reportedly targeting the town of Myrnohrad, which would put Ukrainian soldiers at risk of encirclement. Intense drone activity has cut off many logistics routes, making evacuations and the supply of ammunition and vehicles near impossible. On Monday, Zelensky said Russia had had "no success" in Pokrovsk in recent days but acknowledged that "things were not easy" for Ukrainian forces in the area. He added that a third of all front line clashes were happening in Pokrovsk, and a half of all glide bombs used by the Russians were launched at the town. Earlier last week the Ukrainian president said that Moscow's troops in the area were outnumbering Kyiv's eight to one. Some Ukrainian commentators have criticised the government's efforts to continue to defend Pokrovsk, arguing that troops were being put at risk. In a post accompanying the pictures of his visit to Dobropillya, Zelensky on Tuesday wrote: "This is our country, this is our East, and we will certainly do our utmost to keep it Ukrainian." Russia now controls 81% of the Donetsk region and 99% of neighbouring Luhansk, which collectively make up the Donbas. Moscow has never relented in its ambition to capture the entirety of the area, which Russia's President Vladimir Putin declared annexed in 2022 despite not being in full control of it. However, its progress along the front line has been grinding and occupying the heavily fortified towns in northern Donetsk could come at a huge cost of both manpower and resources. Away from the front line, Russia continues to pummel Ukrainian cities, targeting the country's energy facilities as winter draws in. A large-scale drone attack overnight Monday targeted the southern port of Odesa on the Black Sea, damaging industrial facilities, causing fires and affecting the local power supply. At least 15 civilians were killed and 44 injured in combined drone and missile attacks across the country at the weekend. Ukraine continues to hit back, mostly using drones to target industrial sites across Russia and border regions. On Tuesday, Kyiv said it had attacked a petrochemical plant in the Bashkortostan region and a refinery in the Nizhny Novgorod region, while earlier this week, a drone explosion killed a woman and injured three others in the Russian border region of Belgorod. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Nato "will stand with Ukraine up to the day in which we will have them sitting around the table for a long-lasting peace", a senior official from the military alliance has told the BBC. Admiral Giuseppe Cavo Dragone, chair of Nato's military committee since January, added from an operational point of view he considered the Russia-Ukraine war was bogged down, and "it was almost time to sit and talk because it's a waste of lives". Pointing to the fact that Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022 had resulted in two more countries joining the Western alliance - Finland and Sweden - Adm Dragone described the war as a strategic failure for Russian President Vladimir Putin, despite recent slow, incremental advances by Russia on the battlefield. "They will not get a friendly or puppet government like in Belarus. Putin will not succeed." Asked if European nations were prepared to keep going with supporting Ukraine's defence, he said they were. It was beneficial, he believed that they had had something of a wake-up call and were now taking charge of their own defence. In June, Nato members agreed to raise their defence spending to 5% of GDP by 2035. The move followed repeated urges from US President Donald Trump for members to do so. On Russia's recent announcement about long-range, nuclear-powered weapons like the Burevestnik and the Poseidon, the former Italian chief of defence staff and naval aviator played down concerns by Nato, saying that it was a defensive nuclear alliance. "We are not threatened by them," he said, "we are just ready to defend our 32 nations and our one billion people. We are a nuclear alliance." On the risk of future invasions or attacks, Adm Dragone said if - and he emphasised the conditional here - there was to be anywhere it would likely be the Baltic states: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. But he pointed out that as Nato states Article 5 would be requested - which considers an attack on one nation to be equivalent to an attack on all - and that Nato would come to their defence. Asked if that included the US, he replied: "Yes, because they have committed to this and they have underlined that they are still in the business." Of all Nato defence needs right now, Adm Dragone said air defence was the top priority. Recent incursions by Russian drones into Poland and Romania have prompted the alliance to upgrade its air defences. Regarding the possibility of activating a notional "drone wall" on Nato's eastern borders, he said this would be done within months and that "the alliance's Allied Command Transformation in Norfolk [Virginia] is already working on that". "There is a lot of stuff on the market which will fulfil our immediate needs so we set up a new activity which is Eastern Sentry... integrating all the air defence that we already have on our eastern flank. "Airspace incursions are pretty frequent, we escort them out and that's basically the game," the admiral said. Despite no sign that Russia is changing course on the war in Ukraine and despite signs that some members - notably Slovakia and Hungary - are increasingly opposed to supporting Ukraine's defence, Adm Dragone ended on a positive note. "The alliance is reliable, it is mature, there is a cohesion which is our centre of gravity." "The alliance is stronger than our adversaries, and we will stay with Ukraine up to the day that peace will break out," he added. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine's top military commander has admitted his soldiers are facing "difficult conditions" defending Pokrovsk - a key eastern front-line town - against massed Russian forces. Gen Oleksandr Syrskyi said Ukrainian troops were fending off a "multi-thousand enemy" force - but denied Russian claims that they were surrounded or blocked. He confirmed that elite special forces had been deployed to protect key supply lines which, army sources said, were all under Russian fire. The defence ministry in Moscow reported that Ukrainian troops were surrendering and 11 of their special forces had been killed after landing by helicopter - something denied by Kyiv. Gen Syrskyi said in a social media post on Saturday that he was "back on the front" to personally hear the latest reports from military commanders on the ground in the eastern Donetsk region. In a short video, Syrskyi is seen studying battlefield maps with other commanders, including the head of Ukraine's military intelligence, Kyrylo Budanov. It is unclear when or where the footage was recorded. Ukrainian media earlier reported that Budanov was in the region to personally oversee the operation by the special forces. The deployment of special forces suggests officials in Kyiv are determined to try to hold on to the town, which Russia has been trying to seize for more than a year. Ukraine's 7th Rapid Response Corps said on Saturday that Ukrainian troops "have improved [their] tactical position" in Pokrovsk - but the situation remained "difficult and dynamic". Late on Friday, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky stressed that the defence of Pokrovsk was a "priority". There have been growing reports of Russian advances around the strategic town to the west of the Russian-seized regional capital of Donetsk. Images shared with news agencies late on Friday appear to show a Ukrainian Black Hawk helicopter deploying about 10 troops near Pokrovsk, although the location and date of the footage could not be verified. Russia's defence ministry said it had thwarted the deployment of Ukrainian military intelligence special forces north-west of the town, killing all 11 troops who landed by helicopter. DeepState, a Ukrainian open-source monitoring group, estimates about half of Pokrovsk is a so-called "grey zone" where neither side is in full control. A military source in Donetsk told the BBC that Ukrainian forces were not surrounded but their supply lines were under fire from Russian troops. The US-based Institute for the Study of War said Ukrainian forces had "marginally advanced" during recent counter-attacks north of Pokrovsk, but that the town was "mainly a contested 'grey zone'". Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, and currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory, including the Crimean peninsula Moscow annexed in 2014. Moscow wants Kyiv to cede the Donetsk and neighbouring Luhansk regions - collectively known as the Donbas - as part of a peace deal, including the parts it currently does not control. Pokrovsk is a key transport and supply hub whose capture could unlock Russian efforts to seize the rest of the region. But Kyiv also believes its capture would help Russia in its efforts to persuade the US that its military campaign is succeeding - and, therefore, that the West should acquiesce to its demands. Washington has grown increasingly frustrated with the Kremlin's failure to move forward with peace negotiations - culminating in US President Donald Trump placing sanctions on two largest Russian oil producers and axing plans for a summit with President Vladimir Putin. Zelensky has publicly agreed with Trump's proposal for a ceasefire that would freeze the war along the current front lines. Putin is refusing to do so, insisting on his maximalist pre-invasion demands that Kyiv and its Western allies see as a de facto capitulation of Ukraine. Additional reporting by Jaroslav Lukiv A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The commander in chief of Ukraine's armed forces has warned Russian activity is increasing around the key frontline town of Pokrovsk, saying "the situation is difficult". General Oleksandr Syrskyi admitted Russian infantry was massing in the area and said he had visited the frontline himself for talks with key commanders. But he said reports that Ukrainian troops had been "blockaded" there by Russian forces was "untrue" propaganda. There have been growing reports of Russian advances around the strategic town in the Donetsk region in the east of Ukraine. It forms a key transport and supply hub and its capture could unlock Russian efforts to seize the rest of the region. In a statement on Telegram, General Syrskyi said: "In Pokrovsk, enemy infantry, avoiding combat, is amassing in the urban area and changing locations, so the primary objective is to identify and destroy them." He added: "The situation is difficult, but Russian propaganda claims about the alleged 'blockade' of the Ukrainian Defence Forces in Pokrovsk, as well as in Kupiansk, are untrue." He said commanders were having to maintain "a reasonable balance between goals and capabilities." "The main priority is preserving the lives of our soldiers," he added. Russian forces have been trying to seize Pokrovsk for more than a year. Taking it would give them a path towards taking the two biggest cities still controlled by Ukraine in the region - Kramatorsk and Sloviansk. Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Russia's chief of general staff, Gen Valery Gerasimov, claimed earlier this week Ukrainian troops in Pokrovsk had been surrounded. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Pokrovsk was "the main target" for Russia whose forces there, he said, outnumbered Ukrainians by eight to one. He told reporters Russia wanted to take the town to convince the United States that Ukraine was on the run. "They do not have a result they can 'sell' to the Americans. We understand why they need Pokrovsk. They need it only to claim that Ukraine withdraws from the east and gives everything else they want," Zelensky said. In its latest assessment, the defence intelligence firm, Sybelline, said the battle for Pokrovsk "has entered a highly dynamic and intense phase, as the Russian forces intensify their efforts to infiltrate the city and encircle Ukrainian defenders". Deepstate, a Ukrainian monitoring group, said Russian forces were "gradually engulfing" Pokrovsk "with [their] sheer number of personnel". It said Russian troops were infiltrating deeper into the town and disrupting Ukrainian supply routes. "The situation in Pokrovsk is on the brink of crisis and continues to deteriorate, to the point where it may be too late to fix everything," the group concluded. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A British man has been detained by Ukrainian security services and accused of spying for Russia. Prosecutors in Kyiv said the unnamed man had been passing information to Russian intelligence while working as a military instructor. They said the Briton had arrived in Ukraine in January 2024 and had "conducted instructional sessions for military personnel in Mykolaiv", a city near the front line in the south of the country. He later worked for Ukrainian border units, they added. The man is being held without bail while a pre-trial investigation is conducted. Ukrainian security services say he could face up to 12 years in prison. The UK Foreign Office said it was aware of the reports and it was "in close contact with the Ukrainian authorities". In a statement, the Ukrainian prosecutor's office said the British man had stopped working as an instructor in September 2024 and moved to Odesa where he "established contact with a representative of the Russian special service and agreed to provide military information for money". It said there was evidence showing the Briton in May 2025 transmitting the location of Ukrainian units, photographs of training areas and information about military personnel that could lead to their identification. The man is also accused of gathering information about facilities in Odesa, trying to get access to military units and even discussing "the possibility of using explosive devices". For one of these tasks, the prosecutors say he received $6,000 (£5,148). In a separate statement, Ukraine's security service, the SBU, said the man had been "preparing to commit terrorist attacks". It said he had "professional skills in fire and tactical training" and had advertised his willingness to spy on "various pro-Kremlin internet groups". The SBU said Russian spies had sent the Briton instructions about how to make an improvised explosive device as well as the location of a cache of weapons from which he took a pistol and two loaded magazines. It added that the man had been detained at his "temporary residence" in Kyiv. The man appeared in court this week and was detained without bail while a pre-trial investigation was being conducted by the SBU with support from counterintelligence units. Prosecutors published photos showing him in court with his face blurred to prevent his identification. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russian troops are making a concerted push in eastern Ukraine and have gained a foothold in the strategic hub of Pokrovsk, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says. Moscow's soldiers outnumber Kyiv's 8-1 in the area and Ukraine cannot match that, Zelensky added while insisting Russia had not yet "achieved the planned result". Russia has been trying to capture Pokrovsk for two years. The key supply and transport hub provides supplies and reinforcements to the eastern front - and it would get Moscow closer to occupying the entirety of the Donetsk region. It would also put towns of the heavily fortified "fortress belt" - Kramatorsk, Slovyansk, Kostyantynivka and Druzhkivka - within easier reach of Moscow. Zelensky said drone imagery showed that around 200 Russian soldiers were inside Pokrovsk. Describing the situation as "difficult", he said earlier that there was widespread fierce fighting and "sabotage groups" had entered the town. However, he rejected reports by Russia's Chief of General Staff, Gen Valery Gerasimov, that Ukrainian troops had been completely surrounded. In an update on Tuesday, Russia's defence ministry said its forces had encircled Ukrainian troops around the main railway station and cleared the city's Troyanda district of Ukrainian forces. One soldier from Ukraine's 155th Brigade, Artem Pribylnov, rejected the notion that Ukrainian troops had been encircled in a "cauldron" at Pokrovsk. "But the war has changed and it's very technological now," he said. In previous assaults there had been a path out of the cauldron that troops could drive in and out of, he said, but now drones controlled access points, which made it "extremely dangerous". "Perhaps that's why Russians claim they've encircled Pokrovsk even if there is no physical encirclement of the city?" he suggested. According to Capt Hryhoriy Shapoval, spokesperson of Ukraine's East operational group, 79 attacks had been repelled near Pokrovsk since Monday - almost a third of the total 218 assaults recorded across the entire front line. He said that Russian troops had concentrated a large number of troops and equipment near Pokrovsk and that they were using armoured vehicles to cover their infantry. "So it's hard to stop them," he said. He added that Kyiv's troops normally used drones to counter the Russians' advance but foggy and rainy weather conditions had made it harder to detect and destroy infantry troops. The situation in and around Pokrovsk exemplifies the high cost of shifting the front line forward, even just by a few metres. Last week, Ukrainian media reported that Russian forces were engaging in street battles and targeting Ukrainian positions, including drone operators. Away from the towns, drone technology means both Russian and Ukrainian forces are able to pound one another deep on either side of the front line. Russia's full-scale invasion, launched in February 2022, is almost into its fifth year. Moscow's troops currently occupy about 20% of Ukrainian territory. Kyiv's defence capabilities are shrinking and Zelensky has said Ukraine needs  financial support from its European allies to continue fighting Russian forces for another two or three years. European leaders have so far failed in their attempts to divert €140bn (£123bn) worth of Russian frozen assets to Ukraine - a move which would require complex legal machinations and which was blocked by Belgium at an EU summit last week. The proposal will be revisited in December. Zelensky said he had told his European counterparts that while Ukraine was "not going to fight for decades... you must show that for some time you will be able to provide stable financial support to Ukraine". The Ukrainian president also said he hoped a meeting between US President Donald Trump and Chinese leader Xi Jinping on Thursday would result in a decision by China to cut its support for Russia. Last week Trump slapped Lukoil and Rosneft - two major Russian oil companies - with sanctions, and urged Turkey and China to halt purchases of Russian oil in a bid to put economic pressure on the Kremlin. "I think this may be one of [Trump's] strong moves, especially if, following this decisive sanctions step, China is ready to reduce imports" from Russia, Zelensky told journalists earlier this week. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Following another week of intensive and lethal Russian bombardment of Ukraine's cities, a composite image has been doing the rounds on Ukrainian social media. Underneath an old, black-and-white photo of Londoners queuing at a fruit and vegetable stall surrounded by the bombed-out rubble of the Blitz, a second image - this time in colour - creates a striking juxtaposition. Taken on Saturday, it shows shoppers thronging to similar stalls in a northern suburb of the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, while a column of black smoke rises ominously in the background. "Bombs can't stop markets," reads the caption linking the two images. The night before, as the city's sleep was interrupted once again by the now all-too-familiar booms of missile and drone strikes, two people were killed and nine others injured. The implication is clear. Rather than destroying public morale, Russia's dramatic ramping up of attacks on Ukrainian cities is conjuring a spirit of resilience reminiscent of 1940s Britain. When I visited the market - with the black fumes still billowing from the missile strike on a nearby warehouse - that sense of fortitude was evident. But there was plenty of fear, too. Halyna, selling dried prunes and mushrooms, told me she saw little cause for optimism. "In my opinion, according to the scriptures of the saints, this war hasn't even started yet." "It will get worse," she added. "Way worse." A shopper who told me she had felt her house tremble from the force of the blast was still visibly shaken by the experience. Inspiring memes about blitz-spirit are all very well, but for Ukraine the far bigger question is not how to endure this war, but how to stop it. And with President Donald Trump proclaiming his powers as a peacemaker and pushing that question back to the centre of global politics, another term from that same period in history is once again looming large – 'appeasement'. The question of whether Ukraine should fight against or negotiate with an aggressor has been there since Russia annexed Crimea in 2014. But more than three years after it launched its full-scale invasion, the war is entering a new phase, and that word has re-entered the global debate. On the battlefield, fighting has reached a brutal stalemate, and Russia is now increasingly targeting Ukrainian cities far from the front line. Its aerial attacks – using ballistic missiles, explosive-laden drones and glide bombs – have gone from an average of a few dozen each day last year to nightly, and often run into the many hundreds. What the Kremlin insists are "military and quasi-military" targets now regularly include Ukraine's civilian rail stations, passenger trains, gas and electricity supplies, and homes and businesses. According to UN figures, almost 2,000 civilians have been killed this year, bringing the total since the start of the war to more than 14,000. As well as the human toll, the financial burden is rising exponentially, with the cost of the air defence systems significantly higher than that of the waves of cheap drones being sent to overwhelm them. Just over a week ago, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky set off for his meeting in Washington with President Donald Trump in optimistic mood. The US, he believed, was running out of patience with Russia. But he was wrong-footed by a surprise Trump-Putin phone call while en route, and subsequent talk of another summit between the two leaders in Budapest. Zelensky's own exchange with Trump in the White House was reportedly a difficult one, with the US president once again repeating his old talking points. Framing the conflict as little more than a fight between two men who didn't like each other, Trump insisted they needed to settle the war along the existing front line. Warning of the risks of escalation, he also refused to grant Ukraine the use of the long-range Tomahawk missiles to strike deep into Russia. Gregory Meeks, a senior Democrat on the US House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee, called Trump's strategy "weakness through appeasement". Meanwhile, Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk wrote on X that "appeasement never was a road to a just and lasting peace". Although the comments from the Ukrainian president were slightly more guarded – having learned the hard way not to criticise Trump too strongly – they implied the same meaning. "Ukraine will never grant terrorists any bounty for their crimes, and we count on our partners to take the same position," Zelensky wrote on social media after arriving back in Kyiv. With Russia making it clear that it wasn't anything like as ready as the US president had hoped to end the fighting - vowing instead to advance on even more territory - the planned summit was put on ice. Washington promptly sanctioned Russia's two biggest oil companies – a sign, perhaps, of growing impatience with Putin. While the economic impact to Russia is likely to be minimal, it represents a major shift in Trump's foreign policy, having previously said he would not impose sanctions until European nations ceased buying Russian oil. Even if that is the case, it's clear that a large gulf remains between the US and European view of how to end the conflict. It was on firmer ground that Zelensky found himself a few days later, meeting various European leaders in Brussels and later in London. More sanctions packages were agreed and progress was made towards using Russia's own frozen assets to fund Ukraine's war aims, though ultimately no final agreement was struck. Speaking alongside Zelensky in Downing Street on Friday, UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer promised he would work with his European partners to help provide more long-range weapons to take the fight onto Russian territory. With hindsight, it's easy to mock Britain's policy of appeasement during the 1930s. Indeed, some did so even then. "You could always appease lions by throwing Christians to them," Harold Macmillan, a future prime minister and opponent of the policy, once said. "But the Christians had another word for it." And yet we sometimes forget that the man most associated with the policy, then-prime minister Neville Chamberlain, enjoyed significant support from the US, which shared his deep fear of repeating the horrors of the World War One. President Trump appears to harbour similar fears today. The risk of a widening war with a nuclear armed state is not to be taken lightly, as Ukraine increases the effectiveness and frequency of its strikes on Russian oil depots and, in some instances, its power grid. The Russian leader knows this, warning recently that the use of foreign supplied Tomahawks could prompt a response that was "serious, if not staggering." But few Ukrainians I've spoken to this week have any doubt that the lesson of history holds true. "Russia only stops when it's washed in its own blood," said Yevhen Mahda, a professor at Kyiv's National Aviation University. "Ukraine has proven this. The sooner the West understands, the better for us all." At the market, surrounded by gourds and carrots grown in his own garden, Fedir said he had also been jolted awake by the power of the nearby missile strike. "Putin understands only force," he said. "We need to destroy their airfields and their factories that produce these shells, bombs and missiles." The greater risk, he suggested, lies in concessions, negotiations or appeasement – call it what you will – that, however well motivated, only serve to further embolden an authoritarian power. "Does Europe think he will calm down after Ukraine," he asked. "If he takes Ukraine, he'll carry on." Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Three people have been killed and at least 32 others injured in an overnight Russian air attack on Ukraine's capital Kyiv, the city's mayor has said. Two high-rise residential buildings were hit in the strikes, Vitali Klitschko said, adding in a Telegram post that six children were among the injured. Meanwhile, Russian air defences destroyed two drones heading towards Moscow on Sunday, according to the city's mayor, Sergei Sobyanin. The latest Russian bombardment comes as Moscow has stepped up attacks on civilian targets and energy infrastructure ahead of winter, with Ukrainian authorities saying nearly 1,200 drones have been launched in the past week alone. Officials in Kyiv said the three people were killed when a drone struck a nine-storey residential building in the Desnianskyi district to the north-west of the city, with 24 others injured in the same attack. Damage was also reported to at least three other residential buildings in Kyiv. Seven people including two children are being treated in hospital, officials said. Russia's full-scale invasion began in 2022, and it currently controls around a fifth of Ukrainian territory, including the Crimean peninsula, which it annexed in 2014. There has been marginal movement along the front lines as fighting on the ground continues, while Ukraine has sought to hurt Russia's warfighting ability by striking its military production plants and oil facilities that are essential to its economy. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has recently called on allies to supply his armed forces with long range weapons to continue doing so. However, he came away from a recent meeting at the White House and subsequent EU summit empty-handed. US President Donald Trump did announce new sanctions targeting Russia's largest oil companies this week - the first time he had done so in his current term - as did the EU. Trump said that talks with Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin "don't go anywhere" as he shelved plans for the two to meet in Budapest over the war in Ukraine. On his way to Asia over the weekend, Trump said he had a "great relationship" with Putin but that recent events had been "disappointing", suggesting a meeting between the two was conditional on a peace deal being likely. Trump has appeared increasingly frustrated with Russian conditions for bringing the war to a close, with a summit in Alaska in August failing to yield any tangible results. The US president had previously said fresh sanctions on Moscow were contingent on European allies cutting their Russian energy imports. The EU has pledged to do so by 2028. Zelensky has agreed to a US proposal to cease fighting along the current front lines so peace negotiations can begin - though this falls short of Russian demands that Ukrainian forces completely withdraw from the eastern Donbas region. However, senior Russian envoy Kirill Dmitriev, who met US officials in Washington on Friday and Saturday, told CNN that he believed Russia, Ukraine and the US were close to a diplomatic solution to end the war. "It's a big move by President Zelensky to already acknowledge that it's about battle lines," Dmitriev said. "You know, his previous position was that Russia should leave completely so actually, I think we are reasonably close to a diplomatic solution that can be worked out." Meanwhile, Russia said it conducted a test of an experimental nuclear-powered missile on Sunday, which has been hailed as having a potentially unlimited range and the ability to evade missile defences. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Although moving forward, Oleksandr Volobuev's body is angled slightly away from the camera, as if bracing against the deadly air still swirling with falling debris and smoke. His face in careful concentration, the Major-General from Ukraine's Civil Protection Service clings tightly to a precious bundle, wrapped for protection in his coat - and out of which two small pink shoes protrude. It is a striking image of a dramatic rescue from a nursery school in the eastern city of Kharkiv, following a devastating, direct hit by a Russian drone. Unsurprisingly it has gone viral, capturing both the Ukrainian and the wider global public's imagination. With 48 children trapped in a shelter in the burning building, it was not the only act of bravery that day, not by a long way. But few photographs better sum up the growing impact of Russia's full-scale invasion on everyday life, with Ukraine's most vulnerable now bearing the brunt, including children. "We got the call that there had been an attack on the kindergarten," Oleksandr Volobuev told me. "And, of course, knowing there would be children there, we set off in a state of some anxiety." Little did he expect that by the end of that day, as a result of carrying that little girl to safety, he would find himself being hailed as a national hero. In a split-second moment caught on camera, the Ukrainian people saw not only the reality of Russia's new strategy - its increasing attacks on civilian infrastructure - but also a stark depiction of their own resilience and defiance. It's impossible to know why the Honey Academy, based in a sturdy, two-storey brick building in Kharkiv's Kholodnohirsky district, was hit by a Shahed drone. The low, menacing hum of those Iranian-designed weapons, which carry a lethal 50kg payload, is now all too familiar, not only to soldiers on the front line, but to Ukrainians everywhere. While they can be devastatingly accurate, the large volume being fired by Russia - with multiple waves of drones in each attack on cities across the country - means some inevitably malfunction. Russia has regularly denied targeting residential areas, but maps of the city show no obvious military targets in the immediate vicinity of the kindergarten, and the Ukrainian government certainly spoke of it as deliberate. "There is no justification for an attack on a kindergarten, nor can there ever be," President Volodymyr Zelensky said shortly after the strike. "Clearly, Russia is growing more brazen." Fedir Uhnenko was also with one of the emergency teams rushing to respond to the strike. Normally, as a press officer with the Civil Defence Service, he is not so closely involved in frontline work. But this time, seeing the disaster unfolding in front of him, he knew he had to act. "There'd been a huge explosion and there was horror in their eyes," he told me, on finding the children huddled in the building's basement. Luckily, following the air raid warning that had sounded before the attack, the children had taken cover in the school's shelter there. But with the fire still burning, the roof destroyed and the building filling with smoke and dust, they were still in danger. His colleagues, as well as members of the public who had come to help, stepped forward one by one to scoop up a child. Like Oleksandr, his more senior commander, Fedir was pictured carrying a child to safety. In his case it was a young boy, through the rubble and smoke. "I was reassuring him all the way that everything was fine, there was nothing to worry about," he explained. "When we came out of the building, there was a car on fire. Our boys were putting it out. And, you know, I was surprised the kid didn't cry. There was certainly fear in his eyes." "I said to him, go ahead and hold me as tight as you like. I'm quite big myself and, as you can see in the photo, he grabbed me so tightly." In the end, he had fulfilled two roles: the rescue work and his day job too. His press officer's helmet-camera rolled throughout, capturing many of the up-close photographs and videos that have since been beamed around the world. The children were carried to an emergency reception point in a safe zone, a few hundred metres from the nursery school. All were unharmed, but there can be little doubt about the danger they faced. One adult working nearby was killed in the strike and nine others were wounded, one with serious burns and another a traumatic amputation of her leg. For all the rescuers, Fedir told me, there was the constant awareness not only of the risks of fire, falling masonry and smoke, but of the possibility of another strike. Russia has been known to hit the same target twice, which Ukrainians see as a deliberate strategy to kill emergency workers. The day after the nursery school attack, one of these so called "double taps" killed a firefighter and wounded five of his colleagues in a village a short distance from Kharkiv. Ukraine believes Russia has turned to civilian targets in desperation over its inability to make significant gains on the battlefield. Both Oleksandr and Fedir say what they saw at the kindergarten has done little to change their view of the enemy. "From the beginning I have only one feeling that we must go through all this and win," Oleksandr told me. I ask him what kind of future he envisages for the 48 young lives he helped save. "Of course, only good, happy lives," he replied. "But not only our children. I would like all children to live in peace." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump has said he would like China's help to deal with Russia as he seeks to bring an end to the war in Ukraine. "I'd like China to help us out with Russia," the US president said on board Air Force One, as he flew to Asia for a whirlwind tour, where he will meet China's Xi Jinping in South Korea. It could be wishful thinking, however. China is Russia's biggest ally, and a vital support to Moscow since Western sanctions were imposed over its war in Ukraine. Trump's comments come off the back of a difficult week for Kyiv - the US refused to give it Tomahawk cruise missiles, EU leaders did not release frozen Russian cash to help fund its defence, and there have been more deadly strikes. Ending the Russia-Ukraine war has become a focal point for Trump in recent months, with a ceasefire deal so far eluding him, despite his campaign promises to solve the situation quickly. A summit with Putin in August failed to yield any tangible results, and Trump has grown increasingly frustrated with Moscow. "Every time I speak to Vladimir, I have good conversations and then they don't go anywhere," Trump said earlier this week. On Wednesday, he announced new sanctions against Russia's two biggest oil companies - the first direct interventions the Trump administration has imposed on Russia over the war. What effect the blacklisting will have in the long-term is yet to be seen, but the Kremlin said it was "immune" to the sanctions. While Trump's meeting with Xi on Thursday is still expected to focus on the hostile trade relations between the US and China, Trump said that he would talk to Xi about "everything", including the war in Ukraine. "I'd like to see China help us out [with Russia]. I have a very good relationship... with President Xi. Very good," he said, adding that Xi wants to see the war end. Earlier this week, Trump said that the Chinese president "can have a big influence on Putin". Beijing has never criticised Russia's war in Ukraine, and has been accused by the US and its allies of aiding Russia's war effort - which Beijing denies - through its purchases of Russian oil and monthly supply of dual-use materials (those with both commercial and military applications). Putin and Xi have previously touted their countries' relationship as a "friendship with no limits", and Russia hopes gas exports to China and other countries will replace the revenue lost after Western sanctions were imposed. The warm relations between Russia and China were on full display last month, when Putin, Xi and North Korea's Kim Jong Un met in Beijing for an extraordinary show of solidarity and military might. As Trump made his comments on Air Force One, emergency crews in Ukraine were at the scene of more Russian strikes, including some in Kyiv where several people were killed, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said. "No country should be left alone in the face of such evil," he wrote on Telegram, reiterating the need for Ukraine's allies to step-up support. Meanwhile, in Russia's Belgorod region, residents living near a dam were told to evacuate after a Ukrainian strike on the local reservoir caused damage that could lead to flooding. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Six men have been jailed for their parts in a Russian-ordered arson attack on a London warehouse providing aid to Ukraine. The fire at industrial units in Leyton, east London, on 20 March 2024 caused £1.3m in damage. Ringleader Dylan Earl was recruited by the Wagner Group, a mercenary organisation that acts on behalf of the Russian state and is proscribed by the UK government as a terrorist organisation. He was sentenced to 17 years in prison plus a further six years on extended licence. Before his arrest, he was also plotting to kidnap a wealthy Russian dissident. Earl, 21, from Elmesthorpe, Leicestershire, admitted a National Security Act offence and aggravated arson, along with Jake Reeves, 24, from Croydon, who was given 12 years in prison plus one year on extended licence. Reeves helped Earl recruit a group of men to carry out the arson. The pair are the first to be convicted of offences under the National Security Act 2023. The act is designed to tackle threats that fall short of traditional spying and can involve third party actors not working directly for a hostile state, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) says. Of the other four men sentenced: All four each received a further year on extended licence. Earl contacted the Wagner Group on messaging app Telegram and told his handler he was keen to carry out a series of "missions", of which Leyton would be the first, the court previously heard. In the chat, Earl's contact instructed him to watch Cold War spy drama The Americans and use it as a "manual". Earl then brought in other men to carry out the arson attack. The Ukrainian-owned warehouse they targeted had been used to send goods to Ukraine, including Starlink satellite terminals, and it required eight fire crews with 60 firefighters to get the blaze under control. Earl was supposed to receive £9,000 for his role but was paid less because he carried out the plan early without his handler's sign-off. On Friday, Judge Mrs Justice Cheema-Grubb described the case as a "planned campaign of terrorism and sabotage" in the interests of the Russian state. After the warehouse attack, Earl and Reeves set the group's sights on an arson attack on a restaurant and wine shop in Mayfair and the kidnap of owner Evgeny Chichvarkin, a critic of the Russian state. But before he could carry it out, he was arrested in a B&Q car park in Leicestershire, and videos of the warehouse fire being started were found on his phone. In a search of the drug dealer's home, police recovered a Russian flag, more than £20,000 in cash and cocaine with a street value of some £34,000. Evidence on his phone revealed details of a cryptocurrency account holding more than £58,000 and images of bundles of cash estimated to total £175,000. Earl also admitted possession with intent to supply Class A drugs and possession of criminal property. Commander Dominic Murphy, head of the Met's Counter Terrorism Policing, told the BBC Earl was "somebody working absolutely as an agent of a foreign state to sow unrest and commit crimes in this country". He added Russia presents "a very real threat to our national security" and it was not unusual now to see Russia contacting people online and then using them to conduct criminal activity on their behalf. Security minister Dan Jarvis said the sentences sent a clear message that the UK would not tolerate hostile activity by foreign states. "To those acting for a foreign state, as the head of MI5 has said, you are disposable and you will not receive your reward, just as these individuals found out," he warned. The woman, who was in her 30s, was a passenger in one of the vehicles and she died at the scene. A man and a boy are arrested on suspicion of murder after Eghosa Ogbebor was fatally shot. The new timetable begins on 17 May with some trains re-introduced and new services operating. The borough with the highest population in London, Croydon's borough council is up for election on 7 May. The musical, on the global threat of antibiotic resistance, features a chorus of 60 NHS workers. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
More than 20 nations supporting Ukraine have pledged to "take Russian oil and gas off the global market" as part of efforts to pressure President Vladimir Putin to end the war. "We're choking off funding for Russia's war machine," said UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer, after hosting a summit of the so-called "coalition of the willing" in London. The UK and US have in recent days sanctioned Russia's two biggest oil companies, while the EU targeted Moscow's liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who was also in London, said "pressure" on Russia was the only way to stop the fighting. However, no long-range missile deliveries were announced at the summit. Zelensky has long argued that US-made Tomahawks and European missiles would help make the war costs heavier for Moscow by hitting key military targets – including oil refineries and weapons depots – deep inside Russia. But during last week's talks in Washington, US President Donald Trump indicated to Zelensky that he was not ready to supply Tomahawks. On Thursday, Putin warned that if "such weapons are used to strike Russian Federation territory the response will be... overwhelming". Russia launched its full-scale invasion in February 2022 and currently controls around a fifth of Ukrainian territory, including the Crimean peninsula that it annexed in 2014. Speaking at a joint press conference after the London summit, Sir Keir said Putin was "not serious about peace", and therefore Ukraine's allies agreed a "clear plan for the rest of the year" on supporting Ukraine. The UK prime minister said this also included targeting Russia's sovereign assets to "unlock billions to help finance Ukraine's defence". He gave no further details. On Thursday, EU leaders agreed to help support Ukraine's "financial needs" for the next two years - but stopped short of agreeing to use frozen Russian assets worth €140bn (£122bn). Asked about a so-called "reparations loan" for Ukraine funded by the Russian assets, Danish Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said she hoped a decision would be made by Christmas Eve. In London, the "coalition of the willing" also pledged to strengthen Ukraine's air defences" amid almost daily Russian air assaults on Ukrainian civilians and energy infrastructure. Zelensky warned that Russia "wants to make the winter cold a tool of torment", adding: "They want to break us." Comments by the leaders in London will be disappointing for those who were hoping to hear specific examples of how Kyiv's allies were planning to prevent Russia from attacking Ukraine. No doubt, a lot of the words said will be pleasing to the Ukrainian ear. For example, Sir Keir said the UK and Ukraine's other allies were prepared to ratchet up pressure on Moscow. But there were no concrete examples of how exactly the allies were planning to force a change on the battlefield or force Putin to the negotiating table. In Ukraine, several people who spoke to the BBC said they were more focused on everyday problems, rather than following Zelensky's trip to the UK. Yana Kolomiets, from Odesa, said there was a lack of electricity, heating and water in the southern city. "The more scary thing is that the Russians started launching guided bombs on our region," she added. Tetiana Dankevych, from the capital Kyiv, said power outages and a problems with water supplies caused by Russian strikes were making life "very difficult". "I don't have a feeling this war will end soon," she said. Further support for Ukraine's energy infrastructure was among the issues discussed at the London summit - however, no specific announcements were made. Dutch Prime Minister Dick Schoof and Nato Secretary General Mark Rutte also took part in the London meeting, while other leaders - including French President Emmanuel Macron - participated via a video link. Ukraine and its Western allies have publicly agreed with Trump's proposal that the fighting should be immediately frozen along the vast front line for negotiations to begin. Russia has rejected this idea, repeating demands that Kyiv and its allies describe as de facto capitulation by Ukraine. Earlier on Friday, Zelensky held talks with King Charles at Windsor – their third meeting this year. The woman, who was in her 30s, was a passenger in one of the vehicles and she died at the scene. A man and a boy are arrested on suspicion of murder after Eghosa Ogbebor was fatally shot. The new timetable begins on 17 May with some trains re-introduced and new services operating. The borough with the highest population in London, Croydon's borough council is up for election on 7 May. The musical, on the global threat of antibiotic resistance, features a chorus of 60 NHS workers. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Five-hundred shoeboxes have been filled with Christmas presents for children in Eastern European countries. Volunteers at St Mary's Church, in Brixham, Devon, have packed and checked boxes filled with toys, toiletries, clothing and other presents. The boxes will be be taken to Ukraine and Moldova by Christian Response, a charity based in Exmouth. Volunteer Lindsay Williams said: "They're going to children who otherwise wouldn't have Christmas." The boxes will be taken to the countries by lorry in November. Ms Williams said: "We've got a wonderful lady... who has a load of friends and all year they knit for the shoeboxes. "It's just amazing because you know the whole community has reached out and they just love the idea that children are going to have Christmas." She said the boxes had been in the churches that are part of Brixham Mission Community for the last three months. "People have been bringing in a couple of bars of soap, a few flannels, torches, teddy bears, anything that can go in shoeboxes... and they have just been wonderful." Reverend Dr Philippa Bellows, team rector of Brixham Mission Community, said: "It's been mind-blowing generosity from everyone and particularly from all of our schools. She said "it's desperately sad to think of people suffering deprivation in war-torn countries and people without anything at Christmas". "The feeling that we can do something to alleviate that sadness brings us a huge amount of joy." Follow BBC Devon on X, Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk. The fire service says it is the second time in three days the former Sherwood Hotel has had a fire. Police chief James Vaughan says he is committed to restoring frontline officer numbers. The release comes not long after the UK Wild Otter Trust had to move to a new base. Organisers say entries capture memorable moments along the South West Coast Path. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer will push allies to provide Ukraine with more long-range missiles to strike Russian targets at a meeting in London on Friday. He will host Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky along with the so-called "coalition of the willing", comprising of more than 20 of Ukraine's allies who have agreed to provide Kyiv security guarantees once a ceasefire is brokered. Zelensky has been pleading for weeks for more long-range weapons from the West, a move Russia has warned would escalate the conflict. Ukraine's leader is travelling from Brussels, where he met EU leaders on Thursday seeking financial support. Zelensky arrives days after US President Donald Trump's decision to finally apply further sanctions against Russia. Sir Keir is hoping to maintain the momentum by increasing the pressure on Moscow to negotiate an end to the war. Among the leaders attending Friday's summit will be Nato Secretary General Mark Rutte, Denmark's Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen and Netherlands' Dick Schoof. Others including French President Emmanuel Macron will join virtually. Sir Keir will urge leaders to ramp up the provision of long-range weapons after a successful attack on a chemical plant in Bryansk, Russia, using British-supplied Storm Shadow missiles. "The only person involved in this conflict who does not want to stop the war is President Putin," Sir Keir said. "And his depraved strikes on young children in a nursery this week make that crystal clear," he added. Two children were among at least seven killed in a wave of Russian strikes on Ukraine, which hit a nursery in the second biggest city Kharkiv. Sir Keir will also announce 100 additional air defence missiles will be delivered to Ukraine earlier than planned, as outlined in a £1.6bn deal struck between the UK and Ukraine in March. "Time and again we offer Putin the chance to end his needless invasion, to stop the killing and recall his troops, but he repeatedly rejects those proposals and any chance of peace," Sir Keir said. Long-range missiles have become a key demand in Zelensky's talks with allies. Trump floated the possibility of the US selling Tomahawk cruise missiles to Ukraine, but Zelensky came away empty-handed from a White House meeting last week. Sir Keir will consult Western allies on how to take Russian oil and gas off the global market. They will also discuss using frozen Russian assets to provide Ukraine with financial loans, although the plan faced a lack of political consensus and legal hurdles at the Brussels summit on Thursday. The EU stopped short of agreeing to a proposal to use up to €140bn (£122bn) in frozen Russian assets to financially prop up Ukraine. However, the leaders agreed to help support Ukraine's "financial needs" for the next two years. The US also announced sanctions on Wednesday against Russia's two largest oil companies, Rosneft and Lukoil, as part of efforts to add financial pressure on Moscow to enter ceasefire negotiations. Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. It currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory, including the southern Crimea peninsular Moscow annexed in 2014. Sir Keir Starmer says it is "deeply concerning" the rapper is set to headline a festival after recent antisemitic comments. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Home to Camden Town, the British Museum and Hampstead, the council is up for election on 7 May. Lord Walker suggests the government should keep the 5p cut in place due to increased costs caused by war in the Middle East. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
EU leaders have agreed to help support Ukraine's "financial needs" for the next two years - but stopped short of releasing billions of euros in frozen Russian cash to help fund the country's defence on Thursday night. A decision to use €140bn (£122bn) in Russian assets held in a Belgian clearing house was pushed back until December after concerns were raised by Belgium. The controversial move would be on top of sanctions the bloc has imposed on Russia - the latest targeting the Kremlin's oil revenues. The Brussels meeting came ahead of a London summit on Friday, where UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer will urge European leaders to boost long-range missile supplies to Kyiv. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky is set to attend the meeting of the so-called "coalition of the willing", alongside Nato Secretary General Mark Rutte, Denmark's Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen and Netherlands' Dick Schoof. Other leaders, including French President Emmanuel Macron, will join virtually. European ministers held talks in Brussels on Thursday about how billions of euros worth of frozen Russian cash could be made available to Ukraine as a so-called "reparations loan". Many EU governments had hoped the leaders would back the plan and request the European Commission, the EU's executive body, to work out a formal legal proposal in the coming weeks. But the final text, adopted after a marathon discussion, stopped short of greenlighting the plans. Instead, it asked the Commission for "options for financial support based on an assessment of Ukraine's financing needs". "Russia's assets should remain immobilised until Russia ceases its war of aggression against Ukraine and compensates it for the damage caused by its war," the declaration added. The aim is now for EU leaders to iron out the remaining concerns at another summit in December. "This is a topic that is certainly not trivial. It's very complex," European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said following Thursday's talks. "It was also very clear there are points to be clarified." Antonio Costa, European Council President, sounded a positive note, saying the bloc had "committed to ensure that Ukraine's financial needs will be covered for the next two years". "Russia should take good note of this: Ukraine will have the financial resources it needs to defend itself," he told a news conference. Zelensky, who was in Brussels for the summit, welcomed the outcome as a signal of "political support" for the notion of using Russian assets to keep Kyiv in the fight. There are a number of legal complexities surrounding using Russia's money. Belgium, in particular, has been reluctant to back using the frozen assets as it is nervous about having to shoulder any potential consequences should Russia legally challenge Euroclear, the clearing house where the money is located. Belgian Prime Minister Bart De Wever said his country needed concrete and solid guarantees before supporting the plan, pointing out that it was "unchartered territory". The Belgian government has argued any potential litigation could ultimately create a major financial crisis. "Can this [plan] be legal? That is a very good question... There are no clear answers," De Wever said. "We will in any case be buried in litigation. That seems like a certainty." Russia has criticised the EU's proposals. "Any confiscatory initiatives from Brussels will inevitably result in a painful response," said Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova. The EU's latest sanctions followed US measures against Russia's oil industry - the first time Donald Trump has sanctioned Moscow as he grows frustrated over Vladimir Putin's refusal to end the war. After the US sanctions were announced on Wednesday evening, the US president confirmed that a planned meeting with his Russian counterpart in Budapest had been shelved indefinitely. "Every time I speak to Vladimir, I have good conversations and then they don't go anywhere," he said. The US sanctions targeted Russia's oil giants Rosneft and Lukoil. In response, Putin said the "unfriendly" US measures "will have certain consequences, but they will not significantly affect our economic well-being". The economic impact of the sanctions is expected to be minimal, as Moscow's biggest customers include China, India and Turkey - though Trump has urged these nations to halt purchases. Oil is one of Russia's largest exports. Ukraine wants to use long-range missiles to target Russian oil and energy plants in a bid to limit its war-fighting resources. Zelensky had hoped to secure Tomahawk cruise missiles from the US last week - but Trump refused, saying the weapons were "highly complex" and take a year of intense training to use. The EU's latest punitive measures against Russia saw member states agree to phase out Russian energy imports, as well as targeting three Chinese businesses - two oil refineries and an energy trader - that are "significant buyers of Russian crude oil". The measures are "meant to deprive Russia of the means to fund this war", said  Kaja Kallas, the EU's foreign affairs spokeswoman, adding that they also send a message that "Russia can't outlast us". China condemned the decision, which a commerce ministry spokesperson said "seriously undermined the overall framework of China–EU economic and trade co-operation". A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. As war drives up gas and fuel prices, Europeans turn again to the issue of energy independence. Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US has announced new sanctions targeting Russia's two largest oil companies in an effort to pressure Moscow to negotiate a peace deal in Ukraine. The announcement came one day after US President Donald Trump said a planned meeting with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin in Budapest would be shelved indefinitely. "Every time I speak to Vladimir, I have good conversations and then they don't go anywhere," Trump said. While the economic impact to Russia is likely to be minimal, it represents a major shift in Trump's foreign policy, having previously said he would not impose sanctions until European nations ceased buying Russian oil. The Kremlin said Russia was "immune" to the sanctions. The development came just days after the UK sanctioned the same two Russian oil companies, Rosneft and Lukoil. European Union countries have also issued their own new sanctions that ban the import of Russian liquefied natural gas from January 2027. Trump had repeatedly threatened tougher US measures against Moscow, but has avoided them until now in hopes of brokering a peace deal in the three-and-a-half year long invasion. His administration has sought to cast the US as a somewhat neutral mediator between the two warring nations, after years of full-throated support for Ukraine from his predecessor, Joe Biden. But the US president has grown increasingly exasperated with the Kremlin over its failure to move forward with negotiations. The sanctions are also something Ukraine's leader, Volodymyr Zelensky, has been urging for months. He said they were a "good signal" from the US, adding that a ceasefire was possible if other nations applied more pressure on Russia. On Wednesday, Trump criticised Putin for not being serious about making peace and said that he hoped that the sanctions would force a breakthrough. "I just felt it was time. We waited a long time," he said. He called the sanctions package "tremendous", adding that he hoped they could be swiftly withdrawn if Russia agreed to stop the war. US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said the sanctions were needed due to "Putin's refusal to end this senseless war". He said the affected oil companies - Rosneft and Lukoil - funded the Kremlin's "war machine". Oil and gas are Russia's biggest exports. The two Russian oil firms export 3.1 million barrels of oil per day. Rosneft is responsible for nearly half of all Russian oil production, which makes up 6% of the global output, according to UK government estimates. Moscow's biggest customers include China, India and Turkey. Trump has also urged these countries to halt purchases of Russian oil in a bid to put economic pressure on the Kremlin. India is poised to sharply reduce Russian oil imports in light of Trump's announcement, news agency Reuters reports, citing unnamed industry sources. China has said it opposes the US sanctions. Ukraine has in recent months targeted Russian oil refineries and energy infrastructure in an attempt to hurt its economy. Zelensky had visited the White House on Friday, seeking to acquire long-range Tomahawk missiles that could strike deep into Russian territory, but came away empty-handed. The day before, Trump had announced the proposal to meet Putin in Hungary after an unscheduled call from the Russian leader. But following a call between US Secretary of State Marco Rubio and his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov, the idea was put on hold, with Trump saying he didn't want a "wasted meeting". Trump later said he had refused to give Ukraine the missiles as they were "highly complex" and took a year of intense training to use. Zelensky appeared to suggest that, like with the sanctions, Trump may change his mind in the future. Fighting on the ground continued overnight, with strikes on Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, killing at least two people, officials said. Earlier on Wednesday, Russia unleashed an intense bombardment that killed at least seven people in Ukraine, including children. Meanwhile, power was restored to the Russian-occupied Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant on Thursday, in what the UN's atomic watchdog called "a crucial step for nuclear safety and security". It had been without electricity for 30 days, leading to fears of a meltdown. Last week, the UK slapped a similar sanctions package on Rosneft and Lukoil, with Chancellor Rachel Reeves stating that "there is no place for Russian oil on global markets". Russia's embassy in London said targeting its country's major energy companies would disrupt global fuel supplies and drive up costs worldwide. It added: "Pressure only complicates peaceful dialogue and leads to further escalation." Europe's reliance on Russian oil and gas has fallen dramatically since the start of Moscow's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, but Russian gas still accounts for 13% of EU imports - though the bloc has pledged to phase it out completely. Trump had previously said he would only impose further sanctions on Moscow if Europe completely stopped buying Russian energy. EU Commission President Ursula Von der Leyen praised a new sanctions package approved by the EU on Wednesday, which includes a ban on Russian liquefied natural gas imports by by 1 January 2027. She said this, along with the US sanctions, were "a clear signal from both sides of the Atlantic that we will keep up collective pressure on the aggressor". Earlier this year, the UK and US also sanctioned major Russian energy companies Gazprom Neft and Surgutneftegas. Nato Secretary General Mark Rutte was at the White House when the sanctions were announced, and praised the move for "putting more pressure" on Putin. He was expected to discuss a 12-point plan formulated by European allies and Kyiv that would see the current front lines frozen, a return of deported children as well as a prisoner exchange. The plan also includes a war recovery fund for Ukraine, as well as security guarantees and a clear pathway for Ukraine to join the EU. Trump has indicated that a key sticking point has been Moscow's refusal to cease fighting along the current front line - something Zelensky is in favour of. Russia has pushed back against that idea, with Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov indicating Russia had not changed its position of wanting Ukrainian troops to leave the parts of the eastern Donbas region Kyiv still controls. Additional reporting by Pritti Mistry and Danielle Kaye Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has announced what he called "tremendous" new sanctions against two of Russia's largest oil companies, in a bid to pressure Moscow into ending its war on Ukraine. The measures target Rosneft and Lukoil - two major oil corporations that help fund the Kremlin's "war machine", according to US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent. They represent the first direct interventions the Trump administration has imposed on Russia over its invasion, and have therefore been viewed as a geopolitically significant moment. The sanctions, imposed by the US Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), effectively blacklist Russia's two largest oil producers. Rosneft, a state-controlled company headed by Russian President Vladimir Putin's close ally Igor Sechin, and Lukoil, a privately owned firm, account for nearly half of the nation's total crude-oil exports, according to Bloomberg estimates. Between them, the two corporations export 3.1 million barrels of oil per day. Rosneft alone is responsible for nearly half of all Russian oil production, which makes up 6% of the global output, according to estimates from the UK government. Ending the Russia-Ukraine war has become a focal point for Trump in recent months, and has gained new impetus after he helped to broker a ceasefire in Gaza. A similar deal in Ukraine has so far eluded him, despite his campaign promises to solve the situation quickly. A summit with Putin in August failed to yield any tangible results, and Trump has grown increasingly frustrated with Moscow. The US and its allies have so far been tentative about restricting the Russian energy industry, fearing wider impacts on the global economy. But Trump has recently put more pressure on US allies to curb their spending on Russian oil - saying he would only issue sanctions when they did so. It was Putin's refusal to end the "senseless war" that ultimately prompted the move, Bessent said on Wednesday. The news comes a week after the UK imposed similar sanctions on Rosneft and Lukoil - and just a day after the White House said a planned follow-up meeting with Putin in Budapest would be shelved. "Every time I speak to Vladimir, I have good conversations and then they don't go anywhere," Trump explained. "I just felt it was time. We waited a long time." The impact is being seen as symbolic as well as economic, because Trump has so far pinned his hopes on brokering a peace deal and has resisted issuing sanctions. Two former US ambassadors to Ukraine suggested that the significance of the move remained to be seen in the long term. The sanctions "will certainly hurt the Russian economy, which is already stumbling", Ambassador John Herbst told the BBC. "But I think it's naive to expect this step alone [will] push Putin to actually make peace and good faith." "If we want Putin to actually negotiate in good faith, we have to maintain major pressure, economic and military, for many months. But this is a good start." Bill Taylor, another former ambassador, told the BBC: "These sanctions are an indication to President Putin that he has to come to the table." Trump has repeatedly endorsed proposals to freeze the fighting along current frontlines, suggesting that territory should be "cut the way it is". Russia has pushed back against that idea, with Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov indicating Russia had not changed its position of wanting Ukrainian troops to leave the parts of the eastern Donbas region Kyiv still controls. These new sanctions, against such a critical pillar of Russia's economy, could push it to reconsider that position. That is what the US is hoping for - though analysts who spoke to the BBC expected little immediate change on the ground. According to Dr Stuart Rollo, a research fellow at the University of Sydney's Centre for International Security Studies, the sanctions serve two primary goals - "to materially impact Russia's industrial capacity to wage war, and to coerce Russia into accepting peace terms out of fear of the escalating impacts of sanctions on their economy and society". Dr Rollo added: "They will not impact the former. They may impact the latter if a deft diplomatic balance is struck between the perceived consequences of continuing the war, and the benefits and concessions that will be furnished through a negotiated peace." Michael Raska, Assistant Professor in the Military Transformations Programme at Singapore's Nanyang Technological University, said that, in the near term, the sanctions were "unlikely to alter the military balance in Ukraine". But, he added, "as profit margins shrink, Russia will face difficult trade-offs between maintaining socio-economic stability, while financing a protracted war". These sanctions are sure to deal a blow to Russia's economy, with taxes from the oil and gas industries accounting for about a quarter of the nation's federal budget. But the ripple effects could also be felt much further afield. Oil and gas are Russia's biggest exports - with Moscow's biggest customers including China and India, the world's two most populous countries, and Turkey. Together, China and India make up most of Russia's energy exports. China last year purchased a record of more than 100 million tonnes of Russian crude oil, which accounted for almost 20% of its total energy imports. Likewise, oil exports to India, which made up only a small fraction of its imports before the Ukraine war, has since grown to some $140bn (£103.5bn) since 2022. Trump previously levied a 25% tariff on goods from India as what he called retaliation for such imports. Although Trump said Indian PM Narendra Modi had assured him during a phone call on Tuesday that Delhi "was not going to buy much oil from Russia" as he too "wants to see the war end with Russia-Ukraine". Trump is urging these countries to halt purchases of Russian oil altogether, forcing them to find alternative suppliers, possibly at a higher cost. But refusal to do so could see China and India attracting secondary sanctions from the US. Edward Fishman, a former senior US State Department sanctions official, suggested the significance of the new sanctions depends on what happens next. "Will the US actively threaten secondary sanctions on the Chinese banks, UAE traders, and Indian refineries that transact with RosneftLukoil?" he wrote on X. "I expect, at the very least, some pullback from dealings with Russian oil in the short term." On Thursday, a source with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters that Indian state refiners were reviewing their Russian oil trade documents to ensure that no supply would be coming directly from Rosneft and Lukoil. And Reliance, Indian's top buyer of Russian oil, also said it was recalibrating its crude imports from Moscow in response to the sanctions. News of Trump's sanctions has already caused global oil prices to rise, with Brent - a leading international crude oil benchmark - measuring a 5% surge. For comparison, Brent measured a 1.6% rise following the UK's announcement of sanctions against Rosneft and Lukoil last week. That announcement led the Russian embassy in London to warn that targeting major Russian energy companies would disrupt global fuel supplies and increase costs worldwide - including for families and businesses in the UK. Those ominous projections don't appear to have materialised to any major degree - and pale in comparison to the uptick measured over the past 24 hours, as Trump's announcement fuels uncertainty. But Dr Rollo suggests that, even in this more recent case, the surge is unlikely to continue. "In the medium- to long-term, I don't expect that this will impact oil prices globally, unless secondary sanctions on shipping and finance related to these companies come to be strictly enforced," he told the BBC. Additional reporting by Peter Hoskins, Osmond Chia and James FitzGerald The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
European leaders aim to endorse controversial plans to use Russian frozen assets to support Ukraine at a meeting in Brussels on Thursday. The unprecedented proposal for what the EU has dubbed a "reparations loan" would see Kyiv receive €140bn (£121bn) worth of frozen Russian state assets currently held by Euroclear, a Belgium-based financial institution. The plan has been months in the making, partly due to the legal complexities surrounding it, as well as concerns from member states about upsetting global financial stability. Belgium in particular has been reluctant to back using the frozen assets, as it is nervous about having to shoulder any potential consequences should Russia legally challenge Euroclear. Russia has reacted angrily to any suggestions that the EU could use its money. "Any confiscatory initiatives from Brussels will inevitably result in a painful response," Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said. For the EU, the problem of how to continue to support Kyiv's struggle against Russian aggression has become more urgent since US support for Ukraine has dwindled. As of July, EU member states have provided about €177.5bn (£154bn) in financial support for Ukraine. But in the absence of any progress towards a ceasefire deal, Ukraine will need more money as Russia's full-scale war approaches its fifth year. The price tag of Ukraine's reconstruction and recovery is also estimated by the UN and World Bank to be well above $486bn (£365bn; €420bn). About €210bn (£182bn) in Russian investments was frozen by the EU when Moscow launched its full-scale invasion in February 2022. The biggest share – some €185bn – is sitting in Euroclear, a clearing house for financial transactions in Brussels which operates under EU jurisdiction. When they were first frozen, the majority of these Russian investments were in the form of sovereign bonds – a type of loan made to a government which is paid back over a period of time. These bonds have now matured; in other words, Russia is due to get both its initial loan back as well as interest. But because of the sanctions imposed against it in 2022, Moscow cannot access this money. The EU has been using the interest from Russian frozen assets for Ukraine's defence since spring 2024, and that amounts to up to €3bn per year. The EU is now considering redirecting the frozen funds themselves to Ukraine as a zero-interest "reparations loan". The much-needed liquidity would be available immediately – on the understanding that Kyiv would repay it through reparations from Moscow once the war ends. International law stipulates that sovereign assets cannot be confiscated outright. Although frozen, these assets remain Moscow's property and seizing them is legally challenging. To get around this issue the EU could "borrow" Russia's frozen money held by Euroclear and replace it with an IOU backed by all member states underwriting the debt. This could also offset Euroclear's concerns on how to pay Russia back, should the war end suddenly and Moscow demand its assets back. On Thursday morning Belgium was still expressing criticism of the proposal but leaving the door open to it, if it received guarantees that the risk would be shared by all member states. Prime Minister Bart De Wever said he would do "everything in his power" to block the plan if his conditions were not met. EU foreign affairs chief Kaja Kallas told the BBC's Today programme that Belgium's concerns were "understandable" and that the Belgians "should not bear the risk alone". Russia is furious with the idea of its investments being used. The move would be the "theft of the century" and trigger retaliation and damage Western financial stability, Russia's ambassador to Italy Alexey Paramonov said. If EU leaders green-light the reparations at Thursday's summit, the European Commission will begin drawing up the formal legal proposal for the loan. The most glaring issue with the "reparations loan" scenario is that it hinges on Ukraine winning the war and Russia accepting to pay damages. There is no guarantee Russia will agree to this. If it doesn't, the EU could forgive Kyiv's debt – but it would still have to repay the money it borrowed to fund the IOU to Euroclear. That burden would effectively fall to European taxpayers – an uncomfortable option for most European governments. There is also concern among Europe's central bankers about potentially setting a difficult legal precedent that could undermine global financial stability - as well as putting off other countries from placing their safe haven assets in the West. Neither Euroclear nor EU countries want to be seen as unreliable depositories of foreign wealth. Even in the context of Russia's war, they need to respect the international monetary order. Poland, as well as Scandinavian and Baltic countries, have enthusiastically endorsed the plan, which Finland's President Alexander Stubb called "ingenious". "I think it's going to work and will help Ukraine to fund itself," he said. Other European leaders more sympathetic to Moscow, like Hungary's Viktor Orban and Slovakia's Robert Fico, may well oppose it. If the plan led Moscow to retaliate against Hungarian companies, Orban said, it would be difficult to explain to Hungarians "why they should support the confiscation of frozen Russian assets". However, German Chancellor Friedrich Merz has said that while the decision should "ideally" be unanimous, it could also just be adopted by a large majority - which would circumvent Budapest's veto. Another sticking point revolves around how Ukraine would be allowed to spend the money. Ukraine is facing a €42bn deficit in its 2026 "survival budget", according to the Ukrainian Centre for Economic Strategy. Brussels and Paris would like to use the financing to provide budgetary support to Kyiv, said Mujtaba Rahman, Managing Director for Europe at Eurasia Group. Others, like Germany, want Ukraine to commit to spending the funds on buying European weapons. It is "important that these additional funds are solely used to finance Ukraine's military equipment", Merz wrote in the Financial Times, adding that EU member states and Ukraine would "jointly determine" which weapons to procure. For its part Kyiv is pushing back against any limit on its use of the frozen Russian assets. Iryna Mudra, a top legal adviser in the Ukrainian administration, told Reuters that "the victim, not the donors or partners, must determine how to address its most urgent defence, recovery and compensation needs". Ukraine reserved the right to decide how to allocate resources, Ms Mudra said, adding that some would have to go towards other sectors like reconstruction and victim compensation. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Residents of Russia's Belgorod region say blackouts, air-raid sirens and the sound of gunfire aimed at incoming Ukrainian drones are becoming increasingly common, as Kyiv retaliates against repeated bombardments of its cities with cross-border strikes of its own. "It's so loud and so terrifying," says Nina, a Belgorod resident who asked us to change her name. "I was coming back from the clinic when a siren went off. As usual, I received Telegram alerts about a drone attack. Then bursts of automatic gunfire broke out, I ran into a nearby courtyard and tried to hide under an arch," she recalls. "The next day it all happened again - air defence fire, automatic gunfire, explosions." The number of Ukrainian drone attacks on the Belgorod region has increased nearly fourfold since the start of 2025, according to BBC News Russian analysis based on data from local authorities. In September, more than 4,000 Ukrainian drones were recorded in the Belgorod region, compared with around 1,100 in January 2025. In one of the biggest strikes last month, the region was attacked with more than 260 drones, according to the governor. There has also been an increase in missile attacks since the summer. Ukraine continues to suffer far greater losses from Russia's near-daily missile and drone strikes, which routinely kill civilians and leave cities across the country without power and heat. At least seven people were killed, including two children, in Russian attacks on Ukrainian cities overnight into Wednesday, and there are fears that the coming winter may be the harshest yet for Ukraine. Read more: What's the significance of US sanctions on Russian oil? EU set to endorse deal to turn frozen Russian assets into support for Ukraine Ukrainian authorities say the recent surge of attacks on Belgorod, some of which have caused huge blackouts, is a direct result of Russia's latest onslaught on Ukraine's energy infrastructure. "Maybe they should stop being too comfortable there in Belgorod?" Zelensky said earlier this month. "They must understand: if they want to leave us without power, then we will do the same". Belgorod region is a key logistics corridor and staging hub for Russian forces near the border with Ukraine. It is also a regular point of origin for artillery and short-range drone strikes. Although there were local electricity outages in smaller towns in the region earlier in the war, the city of Belgorod was largely unaffected by power cuts until this autumn. Local student Ekaterina (not her real name) told the BBC she was at home in the city on the evening of 28 September, when notifications started appearing on her phone: "Missile alert! Take shelter!" The sound of howling sirens followed, and the lights in her flat started flickering. "We ran to the corridor, because the explosions started almost immediately. They were very loud. The lights blinked and went out," Ekaterina recalls. Missiles had hit the main Belgorod heat and power plant and a substation, local Telegram channels reported. And while the city centre had its electricity back relatively quickly, some in the suburbs were left without power until morning. Across the region, around 77,000 people, or 5% of the population, still had no electricity the next day. "While you're in the office in the centre, you wouldn't necessarily notice that there was a blackout. But when you're going home it's like entering a whole different world," another Belgorod resident Natalya (not her real name) tells the BBC. "Complete darkness outside. Apartment blocks are without power, the shops are dark too. As you ride through the darkness, it's hard to tell where your stop is - you can't see anything". Another big blackout came less than a week later. Authorities admit they do not have the capacity to provide everyone with back-up generators and have called on residents to buy their own. "But what are we suppose to fuel them with, given the fuel crisis?" Maria, an elderly resident who also asked to change her name, tells the BBC. More than half of Russia's regions, including Belgorod, have been affected by petrol and diesel shortages, due to increased Ukrainian attacks on Russian oil refineries. "And the prices for generators have shot up as well," Maria says. Ukraine has increased production of its "Darts" drone - lightweight and cheap models that can carry a 4kg (9lb) warhead - and many Belgorod residents say this is the reason the strikes have become more frequent. The drones are effective both for single and mass launches which can potentially overload air defence systems. But the recent strikes on energy infrastructure that caused the blackouts in Belgorod are more likely to have involved heavier weapons. Reports say long-range Himars rockets or Morok drones with larger warheads might have been used. And while for many in Russia the war still seems far away, residents of Belgorod region now feel its impact daily, like Ukrainians over the border. "Until September, the war seemed to have faded into the background again. But now we are getting constant reminders - through power outages, fuel shortages, and a general sense of anxiety", says Yakov, who declined to give his real name. "I personally have a strong feeling that, by continuing the war, Russia is racing headlong toward the abyss". Additional reporting by Ilya Abishev A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least seven people have been killed including two children during intense Russian drone and missile strikes on Ukraine, officials say. A kindergarten was hit in Ukraine's second biggest city Kharkiv and there was widespread damage in Kyiv. Children were among the 27 people wounded. Hours earlier, US President Donald Trump said his plans for an imminent summit in Budapest with Russia's Vladimir Putin had been shelved as he did not want a "wasted meeting". President Volodymyr Zelensky said the attacks proved Moscow had not come under enough pressure for its continued war. The Kremlin has rejected calls for a ceasefire along the current front lines made both by Trump and European leaders. However, Russian officials said on Wednesday that preparation for a Trump-Putin summit was continuing, disputing the US president's assessment that it had been put on hold. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said a date had yet to be agreed upon and careful preparation was needed. He said a summit was "the mutual desire of both presidents" and most of the "gossip and rumours" surrounding it were untrue. Read more: Ukraine hits Russian chemical plant with UK-made missiles Ukraine's president arrived in Norway on Wednesday at the start of a European trip, days after talks with Trump in Washington last Friday, when he failed to persuade the US president to provide long-range Tomahawk missiles. Zelensky told reporters in Oslo that Trump's proposal to freeze the front line was a "good compromise, but I'm not sure that Putin will support it and I said it to the president". The Ukrainian leader has directly linked the shelving of the planned Trump-Putin summit to his request for US Tomahawks: "As soon as the issue of long-range missiles became a little further away for us, for Ukraine, then almost automatically Russia became less interested in diplomacy." Following a meeting on Wednesday, Zelensky and Swedish Prime Minister Ulf Kristersson signed a letter of intent that could see Sweden supply 100 to 150 domestically produced Gripen fighter jets to Ukraine. The jets are expected to be delivered over a 10-15 year timeline, with the first sent to Ukraine "within three years", Kristersson added. Russia's drone and missile bombardment came shortly after Ukraine's military said it had attacked a Russian chemical plant in the Bryansk border region late on Tuesday with UK-supplied Storm Shadow missiles. Calling the strike "a successful hit" that penetrated the Russian air defence system, military officials said the Bryansk plant "produces gunpowder, explosives and rocket fuel components used in ammunition and missiles employed by the enemy to shell the territory of Ukraine". Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, and its attacks on the Ukrainian capital overnight were the first such strikes for almost two weeks. A couple in their 60s were killed when a drone hit their high-rise building in the city, and four people were killed in the wider Kyiv region. Among the victims were a 36-year-old woman, a six-month-old baby and a girl, aged 12, when a Russian strike set fire to their house in the village of Pohreby, just to the north of the capital. A man in a nearby village later died of his injuries. Mykola Laroshynskyi lives next door to the house that was hit and said he saw the drone come "like a bird and that was it". "A split second later there was an explosion, " he told the BBC. "I saw flames rising and immediately ran there. I shouted to see if there was anyone alive and no one responded. The house was already on fire." Another neighbour, Vasyl Radchenko, said the "explosion was so powerful" that his wife "needed psychological support". Officials in Kharkiv said later that a 40-year-old man was killed and seven other people were hurt in a drone strike on a kindergarten. Children were among the six people wounded, and dozens more were evacuated, they added. Ukraine's air force said Russia had sent 405 drones and 28 missiles, 15 of which were ballistic. The capital was under a ballistic missile warning for most of the night, and echoed to the sound of explosions. By morning rescue teams fought fires in residential buildings. Across Ukraine, Russian attacks once again targeted energy infrastructure and emergency power outages were imposed in several areas. One MP in Kyiv, Inna Sovsun, told the BBC's Newsday programme that the air raids had lasted throughout the night and were definitely an attack on the power supply: "for the majority like myself it means we don't have electricity and we don't have water." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump has said he did not want a "wasted meeting" after a plan to have face-to-face talks with his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin about the war in Ukraine was put on hold. The US president indicated that a key sticking point remained Moscow's refusal to cease fighting along the current front line, in remarks at the White House on Tuesday. Earlier, a White House official had said there were "no plans" for a Trump-Putin meeting "in the immediate future", after Trump said on Thursday that the two would hold talks in Budapest within two weeks. Key differences between US and Russian proposals for peace became increasingly clear this week, appearing to have dashed chances of a summit. Trump and Putin last met in Alaska in August, during a hastily organised summit which yielded no concrete results. The White House decision to shelve plans for a second Trump-Putin meeting may be seen as an attempt to avoid another similar scenario. "I guess the Russians wanted too much and it became evident for the Americans that there will be no deal for Trump in Budapest," a senior European diplomat told Reuters. A preparatory meeting between US Secretary of State Marco Rubio and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov was due to be held this week - but the White House said the two had had a "productive" call and that a meeting was no longer "necessary". On Monday, Trump embraced a ceasefire proposal backed by Kyiv and European leaders to freeze the conflict on the current front line. "Let it be cut the way it is," he said. "I said: cut and stop at the battle line. Go home. Stop fighting, stop killing people." Russia has repeatedly pushed back against freezing the current line of contact. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said the idea had been put to the Russians repeatedly but that "the consistency of Russia's position doesn't change" – referring to Moscow's insistence on the complete withdrawal of Ukrainian troops from the embattled eastern regions. Moscow was only interested in "long-term, sustainable peace", Sergei Lavrov said on Tuesday, implying that freezing the front line would only amount to a temporary ceasefire. The "root causes of the conflict" needed to be addressed, Lavrov said, using Kremlin shorthand for a series of maximalist demands that include the recognition of full Russian sovereignty over the Donbas as well as the demilitarisation of Ukraine – a non-starter for Kyiv and its European partners. European leaders released a statement with Zelensky earlier on Tuesday saying that any talks on ending the war in Ukraine should start with freezing the current front line and accused Russia of not being "serious" about peace. Zelensky said discussions about the front line were the "beginning of diplomacy",  which Russia was doing everything to avoid. The only topic that could make Moscow "pay attention" was the supply of long-range weapons to Ukraine, he added. Trump had discussed a summit in the Hungarian capital over the phone with Putin, a day before meeting Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky at the White House. Some reports suggested those talks had been a "shouting match", with sources suggesting Trump had pushed Zelensky to give up large areas of territory in the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, known collectively as the Donbas, as part of a deal with Russia. However, Zelensky has always said Ukraine cannot relinquish the parts of the Donbas it still holds, on the grounds that Russia could later use the area as a springboard for further attacks. Putin's unscheduled call with Trump last Thursday came following speculation that the US was preparing to send long-range Tomahawk missiles to Kyiv that could potentially strike deep into Russia. Zelensky said it was the Tomahawks issue that had forced Russia to engage in discussion. Despite coming away from the White House empty-handed, he added that the talk about the missiles had turned out to be a "strong investment in diplomacy". Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Ukrainian city of Chernihiv is in total blackout following what the authorities describe as a "massive" assault by Russian missiles and drones, with hundreds of thousands of people affected. Across the wider Chernihiv region, four people are reported to have been killed as residential neighbourhoods were struck in the town of Novhorod-Siverskyi. Ten others were injured, including a 10-year-old girl. The country's most northerly region is the latest to be hit in an intensifying series of attacks on civilian infrastructure as Russia targets energy supplies, the rail network, homes and businesses in its full-scale invasion of Ukraine. "I personally heard the drones flying overhead," 55-year-old Oleksandr Babich said. The Chernihiv city resident spoke in matter-of-fact terms about a night filled with the low whine of Iranian-designed Shahed drones, a sound now being increasingly heard far from the war's front lines. "Unfortunately, our region is very close to our scheming neighbour," he said, adding an expletive for good measure. The Chernihiv region shares a border with both Russia and Belarus, giving the air defences here less time to react to any incoming attacks. In a raid involving more than 100 Shahed drones - each of which carry a 50kg warhead - and six ballistic missiles, the direct strikes on Chernihiv's electricity generating facilities left the whole city without power, as well as large parts of the surrounding area. Andriy Podorvan, the deputy head of the Chernihiv Regional Military Administration, told the BBC that it was part of a pattern across much of the country, with things getting much worse in recent months. "For around half a year we have been experiencing targeted strikes on the energy infrastructure in our region," he said. "The number of attacks has significantly increased over the last two months." When I asked him if he believed that any of the targets were of military value - Moscow's usual justification for these sorts of attacks - he pointed out that Russia has even been targeting petrol stations. "I can only see strikes on civilian infrastructure," he said. The attack on the electricity grid has also meant the loss of power to water pumping stations, seriously impacting supplies. Residents have been told to stock up on bottled water or are having to rely on emergency deliveries. With the attacks ongoing in the morning, electrical engineers had to delay their initial response - but were later able to begin working to restore power. The wider concern is that, if the intensity of Russia's bombardment continues, it risks rapidly depleting the country's energy resilience, taking a heavy toll on the economy and - with a harsh winter ahead - dealing a psychological blow to the public too. Up until now, the country's generating companies - working together in a war-time spirit of co-operation - have been able to restore power relatively quickly, but stocks of replacement equipment are not unlimited. A single transformer can take more than a year to produce, with added time for transportation and installation. The country is having to look for all the help it can get. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's recent meeting with US President Donald Trump in Washington may have been seen as a strategic disappointment, coming away without having secured a supply of long-hoped for long-range Tomahawk missiles. But his meetings with the heads of leading US energy companies, in which they discussed ways of helping Ukraine to shore up and modernise its energy sector, were reportedly a success. Some estimates put the total cost of the damage to Ukraine's energy infrastructure so far at more than $16bn (€13.7bn; £11.9bn). In Chernihiv, the regional official Andriy Podorvan told the BBC that he believes Russia is unable to make any significant progress on the front lines and so now sees the civilian population as a weak point. But he thinks this is misjudged. "People understand who the enemy is and who is guilty in this situation," he said. "It will lead to the even greater unity of the population." "Although, yes, there are inconveniences, the majority of the population is ready for this," he insisted. Many have been going to work as normal, he pointed out, with back-up generators in place for important facilities like hospitals and government buildings, and neighbours are helping each other. "The hero city of Chernihiv did not give up and is not going to give up. Morale is high." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
European leaders have joined Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky in insisting that any talks on ending the war in Ukraine should start with freezing the current front line, and warned that Russia is not serious about peace. In a statement signed by 11 leaders including UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer, they said they "strongly support" US President Donald Trump's position that "the fighting should stop immediately, and that the current line of contact should be the starting point of negotiations". But Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov on Tuesday dismissed the idea of halting the conflict at the current contact line. Moscow was only interested in "long-term, sustainable peace", Lavrov said, implying that freezing the front line would only amount to a temporary ceasefire. The European statement referred to "Russia's stalling tactics", indicating how intractable Moscow's position remained. Trump, who has often adopted a conciliatory tone towards Russia, is now planning direct talks with Putin in Budapest - although the date for a preparatory meeting between US Secretary of State Marco Rubio and Lavrov seems to be slipping. The US president spoke by phone to Putin last week, a day before meeting Zelensky and his team in the White House. Several sources have told Western media that Trump pushed the Ukrainian leader to give up large areas of territory in the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, known as the Donbas, as part of a deal with Russia. Some reports suggested there had been a "shouting match". Zelensky only described the talks as "frank". The Ukrainian president has often ruled out withdrawing from the region, arguing that Russia could use it as a springboard for future attacks. "I explained during my visit to Washington last week that Ukraine's position has not changed," he said on Monday. Although Russia has occupied most of Luhansk, Ukraine remains in control of about a quarter of Donetsk, including the key cities of Slovyansk and Kramatorsk. Trump, who later denied ever insisting that Zelensky surrender the Donbas, has since embraced the idea of a ceasefire on the current frontlines. "Let it be cut the way it is," he said on Monday, referring to the contested region. "It's cut up right now. I think 78% of the land is already taken by Russia... I said: cut and stop at the battle line. Go home. Stop fighting, stop killing people." But Moscow continues to dismiss talk of a front line freeze. Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov said the idea had been put to the Russians repeatedly but that "the consistency of Russia's position doesn't change" – referring to Moscow's insistence on the complete withdrawal of Ukrainian troops from the embattled eastern regions. Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov repeated much the same lines on Tuesday. The "root causes of the conflict" needed to be addressed, Lavrov said, using Kremlin shorthand for a series of maximalist demands that include the recognition of full Russian sovereignty over the Donbas as well as the demilitarisation of Ukraine – a non-starter for Kyiv and its European partners. The Kremlin has played down expectations of an imminent meeting between Putin and Trump. "We cannot postpone what has not been finalised," Peskov said. Lavrov and US Secretary of State Marco Rubio were meant to meet this week to organise the summit, but no timings have yet been given. A potential meeting between Trump and Putin in Hungary would require at least one EU country to open its air space to the Russian leader's plane. Putin is subject to an international arrest warrant for war crimes, and Poland and Lithuania have already signalled they would execute it if he were to travel through their countries. Another route into Budapest for Putin would be through Bulgarian airspace. Foreign Minister Georg Georgiev hinted Bulgaria would be willing to let the plane through. "When efforts are made for peace, it is only logical that all sides contribute to making such a meeting possible," he said. Trump and Putin last met in Alaska in August during a hastily organised summit which yielded few results apart from bringing to an end Putin's status as a pariah of the West. For some time after the talks, Trump put forward the idea of organising a Putin-Zelensky bilateral summit. But Russia said such a meeting was contingent on the "root causes" of the war being addressed first, and the idea was eventually quietly shelved by all parties. Since starting his second term in office Trump has lamented that the Russian-Ukrainian war, now in its fourth year, is "difficult" to solve. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said he would be ready to join Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin at a proposed summit in Hungary if he were invited. The US and Russian presidents announced after their phone call on Thursday that they planned to hold talks on the war in Ukraine in Budapest, possibly in the coming weeks. On Monday, Zelensky told reporters: "If it is an invitation in a format where we meet as three or, as it's called, shuttle diplomacy... then in one format or another, we will agree". Meanwhile, media reports suggest his White House meeting with Trump on Friday descended into a "shouting match" - with the US side urging Ukraine to accept Russia's terms to end the war. Zelensky was guarded during his first press briefing since the talks, but still his comments made clear that there were large areas of disagreement between the two sides. He described the meeting as frank, and said he had told Trump that his main aim was a just peace, not a quick peace. He criticised Hungary as the location of the prospective Trump-Putin talks, saying the country's Prime Minister Viktor Orban - who is seen by Kyiv and many EU leaders as a Kremlin ally - could not do "anything positive for Ukrainians or even provide a balanced contribution". When asked by reporters on Friday if Zelensky would be involved in the meeting in Budapest, Trump said he wanted to "make it comfortable for everybody". "We'll be involved in threes, but it may be separated," he said, adding the three leaders "have to get together". Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and US Secretary of State Marco Rubio held a "constructive" phone call on preparations for the Budapest summit, Moscow said on Monday. Zelensky had hoped to secure US Tomahawk missiles to strike deep into Russia during his White House visit, but appeared to walk away empty-handed as Trump struck a non-committal tone on the matter. Media reports suggested the atmosphere at the Trump-Zelensky meeting had been far more acrimonious than previously understood. The Financial Times reported that Trump had warned Zelensky that Putin would "destroy" Ukraine if he did not agree to its terms, citing sources familiar with the conversation. The US side was said to have echoed Russian talking points at the "volatile" meeting. It also reported that Trump tossed aside maps of the front line in Ukraine and insisted Zelensky surrender the entire eastern Donbas region to Putin. Trump wrote on social media shortly after the meeting that Russia and Ukraine "should stop where they are" - referring to the current, vast front line. "Let both claim Victory, let History decide!" he said. Zelensky reacted by saying that he was ready for an immediate ceasefire - but insisted that Ukraine "will not gift anything to the aggressor". Commenting on the proposed freezing of the front line, Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Monday that Russia's position was "unchanged" - without giving any further details. Moscow has repeatedly demanded a complete withdrawal of Ukrainian troops from Ukraine's four regions in the south-east - Donetsk, Luhansk (collectively known as Donbas), Zaporizhzhia and Kherson - as well as several other tough conditions. Kyiv and its allies say the demands are tantamount to a de facto capitulation. Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. It currently controls about 20% of Ukrainian territory, including the southern Crimea peninsular Moscow annexed in 2014. "We really didn't get what we wanted," Ukrainian political analyst Mykola Davyduik said of the latest Trump-Zelensky meeting. "A few days after, we received some insights from the meeting and some threats and pressure that the Ukrainian side received there," he told the BBC. But he added: "I don't think that Trump is fully and completely on Putin's side, and he is trying to play mediator... and that is his kind of style and how he behaves in such a situation." Ivan Stupak, however, a former member of Ukraine's security and intelligence service (SBU), said reports of acrimony were likely exaggerated. "I'm totally sure that this meeting was neutral, not negative, not a disaster," he told the BBC, adding that tempers sometimes flare, even between allies. "It's not Disneyland, it's not a kindergarten. It's a meeting of two men and two leaders." Just last month, Trump appeared to take a major shift in his position on ending the war by saying Kyiv could "win all of Ukraine back in its original form", referring to Ukraine's internationally recognised borders. He said at the time that his position had changed "after getting to know and fully understand the UkraineRussia military and economic situation". In a new twist on Monday, Trump said that Ukraine "could still win it", adding: "I don't think they will... Anything can happen... war is a very strange thing." Trump had previously warned the process would likely involve Ukraine giving up some territory - an outcome Zelensky has consistently rejected. The US president has been pressuring Nato nations, as well as China and India, to stop purchasing Russian oil in a bid to create further economic pressure on Moscow to end the conflict. He also previously threatened Russia with tougher sanctions if Putin did not meet deadlines to make progress in ending the war, though he did not follow through with those threats. Trump's public relations with Zelensky had also vastly improved in recent months, after an Oval Office meeting in February during which he and Vice-President JD Vance berated the Ukrainian president on live television. During his re-election campaign, Trump claimed he would be able to end the war in Ukraine within days but has since admitted resolving the conflict has been more challenging than any he has been involved in since returning to office. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
One word sticks out in the Ukrainian leader's description of his latest high-stakes foray into the nerve-centre of American power. His White House conversation with President Donald Trump, Volodymyr Zelensky wrote on X, was "pointed". But we don't need to parse his semantic description of the exchange to know that this was not the meeting that the Ukrainian side had been expecting. If the old British adage holds true that a week is a long time in politics, then Zelensky appears to have set a new record. A short transatlantic flight, it seems, is now an age. As they set off for Washington on Thursday, the Ukrainian side was in high spirits. Listen to the words of Ruslan Stefanchuk, the speaker of Ukraine's parliament – effectively the country's second in command – and a politician fiercely loyal to Zelensky. In an interview with the BBC shortly before the president's plane took off, Stefanchuk described the trip as a "very important historical moment". The meeting, he said, would leave the world in no doubt that Trump "finally understands that Putin is a liar, he can't be trusted, and actions are needed to stop the war". And, he appeared to suggest, the crucial question for Ukraine – whether Trump would agree to its use of American long-range Tomahawk missiles - was close to being "solved". But it was as Zelensky's flight was in the air that news of the two-and-a-half-hour Trump-Putin phone call began to emerge and, before its wheels were even on the Washington tarmac, we had the announcement that another summit between the two was in the offing. The Ukrainians descended the steps, to be met with a low-key American greeting, and with their optimism, like a piece of waylaid luggage, lost somewhere en route. Just a few weeks ago, the US president appeared to be running out of patience with Russian President Vladimir Putin, suggesting he thought he might be stringing him along, that his continuing attacks on Ukraine were "crazy" and that he was growing "very angry" with him. But Friday's meeting confirmed that the sense of frustration was gone. "I think he wants to make a deal," Trump said, and then proceeded to repeat some of his old talking points, framing the conflict as, in essence, a personal gripe between two leaders. "There's a lot of bad blood," he said. Zelensky has learned from bitter experience that there are great risks in being seen to challenge Trump inside the walls of the White House. And so, the underlying tension was - once again - palpable as Trump, his secretary of state, the war secretary and treasury secretary looked on sternly, while prominent members of the MAGA (Make America Great Again)-leaning media clustered around the back of his chair. As expected, Zelensky was careful to offer effusive praise for the host's prowess as a peacemaker and to repeatedly express his gratitude. Flattery is the currency of diplomacy in Washington nowadays. But Zelensky also made it clear he did not share Trump's apparent confidence that Russia is acting in good faith. "We understand that Putin is not ready," he said. The outcome, though, appears to have been a foregone conclusion. Trump ended the day insisting that the war should simply be frozen on the existing battle lines and both sides should simply "go home to their families". For Ukraine and its allies, the conflict is not a personal dispute but a war of aggression being fought by an authoritarian state, with imperial ambitions, against a European democracy. Ukraine wants the US Tomahawk missiles to help it pressure Putin into genuine negotiations, and it wants US security guarantees to make sure he is forced to abide with any future peace settlement. Zelensky left the White House without either of those things. What do Ukrainians think of it all? In a suburb of Kyiv, recently hit by two Russian missiles, I spoke to some of the residents still working to repair the damage to their homes and businesses. I asked Volodymyr Tsepovatenko - still busy fixing windows that were blown out of the small shop he owns – for his views on where Ukraine stands after the latest White House meeting. "If we make a peace deal now," he told me, "Russia will start to prepare a new more professional war against Ukraine, or maybe other countries." "I see one way for our safety and it's to destroy the possibility of Russia occupying or fighting any country in Europe." Ukraine needs to keep fighting, he said. Oleksandr Vilko's car was destroyed by the blast wave when the missiles struck. He is not too worried, he says, about the decision on the Tomahawks. "The only power who decides what's going to be next is our army," he told me. While Ukraine is grateful for any assistance provided so far, he said, it was Washington's sovereign right whether or not to give Ukraine its own long-range missiles to fight back. But with or without them, Ukrainians would fight on, he said. "It's almost the fourth year of the war with the biggest country in the whole world," he said. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Volodymyr Zelensky appears to have come away empty-handed from a White House meeting after US President Donald Trump indicated he was not ready to supply sought-after Tomahawk cruise missiles to Ukraine. Zelensky said after the cordial bilateral talks that he and Trump had talked about long-range missiles, but decided not to make statements on the issue "because the United States does not want an escalation". Following the meeting, Trump took to social media to call for Kyiv and Moscow to "stop where they are" and end the war. The Trump-Zelensky meeting came a day after Trump spoke with Russian President Vladimir Putin by phone and agreed to meet him in Hungary soon. Zelensky believes using Tomahawks to strike at Russian oil and energy facilities would severely weaken Putin's war economy. While Trump did not rule it out, his tone at the White House on Friday was non-committal. "Hopefully they won't need it, hopefully we'll be able to get the war over without thinking about Tomahawks," the US president said, adding: "I think we're fairly close to that." He described the weapons as "a big deal" and said that the US needed them for its own defence. He also said that supplying Tomahawks to Ukraine could mean a further escalation in the conflict, but that discussions about sending them would continue. Asked by the BBC if the Tomahawks had prompted Putin to meet Trump, the US president said: "The threat of that [the missiles] is good, but the threat of that is always there." The Ukrainian leader suggested his country could offer drones in exchange for the Tomahawks, prompting smiles and nodding from Trump. Zelensky also complimented Trump on his role in securing the first phase of a peace deal in the Middle East, suggesting the US leader could build on that momentum to help end Russia's war in Ukraine. After the meeting, Zelensky was asked by a reporter outside the White House if he thought Putin wanted a deal or was just buying time with the planned meeting with Trump in Budapest. "I don't know," he said, adding that the prospect of Ukraine having Tomahawks had caused Russia to be "afraid because it is a strong weapon". Asked if he was leaving Washington more optimistic that Ukraine would get the Tomahawks, he said: "I am realistic." The Ukrainian leader also appeared to suggest he would be amenable to Trump's suggestion of stopping the war along the current front line. "We have to stop where we are, he is right, the president is right," Zelensky said. He added that the step after that would be "to speak". He later posted on X, saying that he had called European leaders to share details of the meeting with Trump, adding that the "main priority now is to protect as many lives as possible, guarantee security for Ukraine, and strengthen all of us in Europe." UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer said the call with European leaders was "productive" and promised that "the UK will continue to send humanitarian aid and military support". While Trump had shown an openness to the idea of selling the Tomahawks in recent days, Putin warned that such a move would further strain the US-Russian relationship. On Thursday, Trump said "great progress" was made during a phone call with Putin, with the pair agreeing to face-to-face talks soon in Hungary - although no date has been set. Asked by a reporter on Friday if he was concerned Putin might be playing for time by agreeing to a new summit, Trump said: "I am." "But I've been played all my life by the best of them, and I came out really well. So, it's possible, a little time, it's alright. But I think that I'm pretty good at this stuff. I think that he wants to make a deal," he said. When asked by another reporter whether Zelensky would be involved in the prospective talks in Budapest, Trump - who was sat beside the Ukrainian president  said there was "bad blood" between Putin and Zelenksy. "We want to make it comfortable for everybody," Trump said. "We'll be involved in threes, but it may be separated." He added that the three leaders "have to get together". The US president said his call, the first with Putin since mid-August, was "very productive", adding that teams from Washington and Moscow would meet next week. Trump had hoped a face-to-face summit in Alaska in August would help convince Putin to enter into comprehensive peace talks to end the war, but that meeting failed to produce a decisive breakthrough. They spoke again days later when Trump interrupted a meeting with Zelensky and European leaders to call Putin. Back in Ukraine, the BBC spoke on Friday to a couple repairing the small store they own in a suburb of Kyiv, after it was obliterated by Russian missiles last month. When the store-owner, Volodymyr, was asked about Trump's forthcoming summit meeting with Putin, he began to say: "We appreciate all support". But he stepped away as tears welled up in his eyes. After a long pause, he composed himself and started again. "Truth and democracy will win, and all the terrorism and evil will disappear," he said. "We just want to live, we don't want to give up, we just want them to leave us alone." Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump is the "only one who can force" Russian leader Vladimir Putin to the negotiating table over the war in Ukraine, Finland's president has told the BBC. Alexander Stubb also said that Finland would never recognise occupied Crimea as part of Russia, and that he wanted to ensure Ukraine became an EU and hopefully Nato member once the war was over. BBC Radio 4's Today programme spoke to President Stubb ahead of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's meeting with Trump at the White House on Friday, where he told the US president: "I think we can end this war with your help." Meanwhile, Trump said that Putin has agreed to meet face-to-face with him in Hungary. The US leader said on Friday that Putin "wants to get it ended. I think that President Zelensky wants to get it ended. Now we have to get it done". Zelensky said in the White House that Ukraine was ready to talk in any format and wanted peace, but argued that Putin needed to be "pressured" into ending the war. In August, Trump and Putin met in Alaska for a summit that did not result in a breakthrough, or yield a further meeting involving Zelensky. Stubb said Trump had once asked him - over a game of golf - whether he could trust Putin; and Stubb's answer was no. "What we need is not so much the power of the carrot to convince Russia to the negotiating table, it's more of the stick that will bring them. "So you have to force Russia to come to the negotiating table for peace and that's the deal President Trump is trying to make." He said Trump "has been giving the carrot to President Putin, and the carrot was in Alaska, and of course now if you look at the language that he has put forward lately, there has been more stick". Stubb was optimistic about Trump's ability, saying he believed peace negotiations had probably advanced more in the past eight months during Trump's second term than in the previous three years. Russia annexed the Crimean peninsula in 2014 and launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Stubb said Finland would never recognise Crimea, or the regions of Donetsk or Luhansk, as Russian. Russia controls 70% of Donetsk and nearly all of neighbouring Luhansk. He said "the only ones who can decide on the land issue are the Ukrainians themselves". "I want to make sure that Ukraine, when this war is over, retains its independence, retains its sovereignty - in other words becomes an EU member state and hopefully a Nato member - and also maintains its territorial integrity. That is what we are all fighting for right now," Stubb said. Trump said in August that there would be "no going into Nato by Ukraine" as part of a peace deal. The US president previously floated the idea that there may be some "land swaps" in a future peace deal, but then, in September, said Kyiv could "win all of Ukraine back in its original form". When asked why Trump had apparently changed his tune, Stubb said it was because Russia was not advancing - seizing only 1% of Ukrainian territory in the past 1,000 days. Ukraine had also been able to push back, he said. Stubb said Russia's economy - smaller than Italy's - was suffering, with the country's reserves depleted, growth "pretty much around zero", and inflation raised to between 10% and 20%. Stubb said economic threats should be used to bring Russia to the table, most importantly giving €200bn (£173bn) worth of frozen Russian assets to Ukraine as a loan that would stay there if Russia did not pay compensation after peace negotiations. He also wanted to see exports of Russian oil and gas to Europe - which have dropped by 80% - cut off. Sanctions could be put on countries that buy Russian oil and gas, he said, in addition to the 19th European sanctions package targeting Russia. Stubb said "all the strategic games of Putin have been an utter failure". Russia had been unsuccessful in trying to take over Ukraine, to divide Europe and to split Nato, with two new members - Finland and Sweden - added instead. He said Europe's "coalition of the willing" was ready to provide security guarantees to Ukraine, with the key help in the air, on the seas and with intelligence. But they needed a backstop from the US, specifically in air defences, intelligence and operations, he said. Stubb said he hoped to see some results from a two-phase peace process - the first a ceasefire to stop the killing and the second an extended peace process - "in coming days and weeks". "We'll keep on working at it. The key is to engage and try to find solutions and be pragmatic. In foreign policy you always have to deal with the world as it is, not what you would wish it to be, but let's do peace." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
News of the phone call between US President Donald Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday, in which they agreed to meet in person to discuss the war in Ukraine, will have come as an unwelcome surprise to Kyiv. The last 24 hours alone have seen Russia launch dozens of missiles and more than 300 drones at multiple targets. Once again, they include a large amount of civilian infrastructure with further damage to the country's gas supply network, just as the first signs of cold herald a long, hard winter ahead. Attacks on the electrical grid are already leading to nationwide power outages. For Ukraine's government it's a sign of Russian desperation. The frontlines are at effective stalemate, involving huge loss of life for incremental territorial gains. And the Russian economy is feeling the effects of the Ukrainian military's increasingly effective drone strikes on oil depots. So, President Volodymyr Zelensky's big hope was for more American military assistance to keep up that pressure. Before he boarded his plane to Washington, he seemed to believe that things were going his way. There was optimistic talk about Trump beginning to see the world through Ukraine's eyes, a big shift from that angry, humiliating Oval Office exchange in February when he accused Zelensky of "gambling with World War Three". The failure of the Trump-Putin Alaska summit in August and the intensifying bombardment of Ukraine were – it was thought – all causing the US president to lose patience with his "good friend", as he has called Putin. There were high hopes that Friday's meeting would finally yield the prize Ukraine has been seeking - Trump's permission for the purchase of long-range Tomahawk missiles. Trump's frustration with Putin was obvious on Sunday when he told reporters: "Do they [Russia] want Tomahawks going in their direction? I don't think so." But how much of a game changer the missiles would really be is in much dispute among military experts and, with the complicated logistics, it could be months before they were deployed. But at the very least they would add to Ukraine's ability to strike deep into the heart of Russia and with a much more powerful weapon than any it currently possesses. They would also send a potent physical message to Putin about America's shifting allegiances. So, the two-and-a-half-hour Trump-Putin phone call, that took place while Zelensky was in flight, somewhat steals a march on the Ukrainian president's big moment. So far, though, he's putting something of a brave face on it, suggesting in a post sent on his arrival in Washington that Russia was panicking. The Kremlin was "rushing to renew dialogue", he said, precisely because of all the talk of the Tomahawks. Other analysts will see less panic and more of a classic Putin play at work in the phone call, which was said by the Kremlin to have taken place at Russia's behest. The issue of the Tomahawks was indeed discussed, with Putin reinforcing his view that their deployment would be seen as a significant act of provocation. The two men apparently discussed the "colossal prospects" – in Russia's words – for trade if peace were achieved. And then they agreed to their summit in Hungary. That will probably happen within the next two weeks, Trump said. As Ukraine faces its fourth winter of war, few people here had much belief in Trump's claim that he could turn his "success" in the Middle East into momentum towards peace in Ukraine. One woman the BBC spoke to, badly injured in a Russian strike on a civilian railway carriage, shrugged her shoulders when we asked her if she saw an easy way out. "A person like Putin can't be trusted," she said from her hospital bed. After touching down in Washington on Thursday evening, Zelensky met representatives of defence companies who produce the powerful weapons he says he needs to strengthen Ukraine's protection. He will still ask the White House for the Tomahawks. But Trump's willingness to give them was always in doubt and must, surely, be now further called into question. Meanwhile, Russia is being given something. A familiar pattern is developing. Every time Trump grows increasingly frustrated with Putin's intransigence over Ukraine he is then placated by a conversation with the Russian president. Each time they speak he seems to be persuaded of Putin's point of view and backs off his threats to apply tougher sanctions or supply more destructive weapons. The Hungary summit, offered without concessions, doesn't look like much of a loss of American patience. For now, Ukraine has been given a long-range curveball instead. Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Ukrainian politician has hailed a council's agreement with the region he heads as  "extremely important". Suffolk County Council has signed a memorandum of understanding with Poltava Regional Military Administration. The council said the agreement would help to strengthen ties and collaboration on economic development, agriculture and food production, and tourism. Volodymyr Kohut, head of the Poltava administration, said: "It is extremely important for us because this is the chance for us to find those shared common points within the number of areas." He and Conservative council leader Matthew Hicks signed the document on Wednesday at the XR Lab at West Suffolk College, Bury St Edmunds. Kohut said: "I do hope that this will be the first point, the initial step for us, to grow our potential stronger. "We are here, first of all, to establish new connections, to find new people, to find opportunities which can help and be mutually beneficial." Hicks said the agreement was a "bigger opportunity than just money". He said it could include joint research, student and workforce exchanges and business partnerships "This is about sharing knowledge and collaboration in areas where we have common links, and actually Poltava and Suffolk have many things in common, so this is a really good opportunity for us to sign this memorandum of understanding," he said. Gifts, including a picture of a Suffolk Punch horse and a traditional Ukrainian embroidered shirt, were exchanged during the agreement, Lesi Hunko, from Kyiv, has lived in Suffolk for three years and studied English Language at the college. The 54-year-old, who lives near Newmarket, said: "It is a very nice event, and I think English and Ukrainian people are very the same, and I think this event will be good for progress in agriculture and IT." Sasha Hordeenko, 39, moved to the UK from Dnipro in Ukraine about two and a half years ago. Now living in Thurston, she said: "It is like a historical moment as Ukrainian people know they are not alone in this world." Follow Suffolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. Two key routes are included in the government's new five-year roads investment strategy. A government decision on how many councils Suffolk will have angers the Tory county council. She is described as "an institution" in Suffolk after carrying out 37 years of public service. A "disgruntled" councillor wears a Margaret Thatcher dress and takes aim at her party's record. From key dates to whether the council could change hands. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Propped up in her hospital bed, railway conductor Olha Zolotova speaks slowly and quietly as she talks about the day her train was hit by a Russian drone. "When the Shahed [drone] hit I was covered in rubble. I was in the second car. People pulled me out," she says. "My eyes went dark. There was fire everywhere, everything was burning, my hair caught fire a little. I was trapped." Olha is a victim of Russia's increasingly frequent attacks on the Ukrainian railway system – vital infrastructure that keeps the country moving three and a half years since Moscow's full-scale invasion. Ukraine's 21,000km-long (13,000-mile) railway system is not merely a mode of transport, it is a central pillar of Ukraine's war effort and a powerful national symbol of resilience. Olha's injuries were severe, so she was transported more than 300km (185 miles) to a special hospital in the capital, Kyiv, dedicated to railway workers. She has just had surgery on her hip and a metal plate inserted into her leg. Her train was hit earlier this month at a station in Shostka in the northern Sumy region. As rescue workers sought to tend to the injured, a second Russian drone struck the station – a type of hit known as a "double tap". Ukraine says civilians and rescue teams were directly targeted, which would constitute a possible war crime under international law. Thirty people in total were hurt. Of those treated in hospital, three were children, and one man was found dead, possibly from a heart attack. According to national rail operator Ukrzaliznytsia (UZ), there were twice as many attacks in September as there were in August - not just on trains but on the infrastructure that supports the rail network. In fact, half of the attacks on the railways since the beginning of the war have taken place in the past two months, says Oleksiy Balesta, a deputy minister at the department that oversees the rail network. "Almost every day for the last two months, we have been experiencing targeted attacks on Ukrzaliznytsia infrastructure and on power transmission facilities," he says. Balesta suggests Russia has been "hunting for locomotives - deliberately targeting both freight and passenger trains". Behind the deputy minister is a wrecked locomotive, part of Ukraine's intercity fleet that was targeted in eastern Kyiv on one particularly devastating night at the end of August. The attack also included a strike on a key rail junction in Koziatyn in the central Vinnytsia region, creating delays and forcing significant diversions. As he speaks, Balesta receives a message from his assistant. There has been another attack on a train between Kramatorsk and Sloviansk in the eastern Donetsk region, close to the front line. Already today there have been three bomb threats on other services, forcing staff to evacuate the trains until explosives experts have given the all clear. Officials here point to two principal factors which they believe have led to this intensified spate of attacks. First, Russia's increasing capacity to produce large numbers of relatively cheap Shahed-type drones each day, which are increasingly able to fly greater distances. Then there is the near stalemate on the front line - and the consequent shift in focus by the Russian army to disrupt supply lines instead. "It's a very clear battle for the railways," says Oleksandr Pertsovskyi, chief executive of UZ. "The enemy is trying to stop us completely. This is part of a war tactic meant to cause panic among civilians, destroy our economy, and make the country unliveable." Repairing damage as fast as possible, co-ordinating with the military and training its staff to recognise potential sabotage threats are all key to Ukraine's response, says Pertsovskyi. "Lastly, we always have Plan B, C and D. The goal is never to cancel a single service or destination. If a train can't run, we combine trains and buses." On top of the practicalities, there is also a clear eye on the morale of passengers. "Recently, a train from Kyiv to Sumy had to be rerouted, adding six hours due to safety reasons," says the UZ chief. "A passenger posted on social media that she'd be spending her birthday on the train instead of with her boyfriend - but said she understood. We sent her a cake and flowers." The constant threat of missiles and drones means flying people and supplies around the country is nearly impossible. Much of the grain and iron ore exports that Ukraine's economy depends on is moved by train to the southern Black Sea ports, and westward through Poland. Visiting political leaders from all around the world also all enter the country by train – "iron diplomacy", as Ukrainians call it. The workers who have been caught up in attacks are called "iron heroes". In the grandeur of Kyiv's central station, another government minister awards certificates of bravery to the latest group of Iron Heroes - those who fought the fires on the night the intercity depot was attacked. "It was very scary because there was a lot of fire and damage," says Oleksandr Leonenko, who helped extinguish the flames. He proudly shows me his certificate and says it will mean some extra pay. The uptick of attacks on the railway has coincided with Russia targeting Ukraine's power infrastructure. One recent set of attacks left hundreds of thousands without electricity. Ukraine has meanwhile launched a series of attacks on Russian oil refineries and claims to have inflicted petrol shortages in many areas. As Ukrainians eye their fourth winter since Russia's full-scale invasion began, UZ's Oleksandr Pertsovskyi believes the attacks on their infrastructure could bring about the hardest winter yet. In a message echoed by many Ukrainian officials, he calls on the country's allies to supply stronger air defences. "But we're not desperate. We're preparing mentally and practically. Ukrainians remain strong in spirit." That spirit looks set to be tested to the limit in the coming months. Additional reporting by Mariana Matveichuk and Anastasiia Levchenko A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Widespread travel changes are pencilled for the busy Easter weekend Great Western Railway says services between the airport and Reading, via Surrey, will start in June. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Emergency power outages have been brought in across almost all of Ukraine after a intensive campaign of Russian air strikes on energy infrastructure. This will be the fourth consecutive winter of blackouts throughout Ukraine since Russia launched its full-scale invasion in February 2022. The energy ministry said all but two regions were affected. Only the eastern Donetsk region at the forefront of the war is exempt, while the northern Chernihiv region is already facing hourly outages. As well as targeting the power network, Russia has increasingly targeted Ukraine's railways. Ukraine has meanwhile ramped up attacks on Russian oil refineries, in border regions and beyond. One oil depot in the Crimean peninsula - which Moscow illegally annexed from Ukraine in 2014 - has been burning for three days following a second Ukrainian drone attack in a week. The Marine Oil Terminal in Feodosia is the largest in Crimea and an important logistical link for Russian troops operating in Ukraine. Kyiv's armed forces general staff said on Wednesday that 16 fuel tanks were damaged and that a large-scale blaze was continuing to burn. The surge in drone attacks on oil refineries and pipelines has also led to fuel shortages and price rises in some parts of Russia - a development that Ukrainian leaders hope will hit Russia's war effort and help bring the Kremlin to the negotiating table. The strikes have reduced Russian fuel exports to their lowest level since the start of the war, according to figures from the International Energy Agency. Ukraine's energy ministry said emergency restrictions were being brought in "because of the complicated situation". Emergency work was taking place in all regions affected by Russian attack, grid operator Ukrenergo said, and it urged consumers who still had power to use it sparingly. Temperatures in parts of Ukraine were forecast to fall to 3C overnight into Thursday. The electricity company in Lviv in western Ukraine said that because the outages were under emergency conditions there was no possibility to warn consumers in advance. Russia argues its attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure are aimed at its military, but millions of civilians have already been affected by outages in recent weeks. On one night alone last week, on 9-10 October, a combined missile and drone attack caused power cuts in nine regions, from Kharkiv and Sumy in the north to Odesa in the south. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has accused Moscow of aiming to "create chaos and apply psychological pressure on the population through strikes on energy facilities and railways". Kyiv has long been pushing to be given more weapons that could allow it to strike deeper into Russia, and Zelensky this week vowed that long-range weapons would be used only on military targets, not civilians. Ukraine's Western allies have been wary of providing long-range weaons through concern such a move would escalate the war. Moscow has repeatedly said it would view the use of Western-made weapons to hit Russia as "direct participation" of Nato countries in the war in Ukraine. However, Moscow's "red line" on Western missiles has already been crossed without any clear consequences. US President Donald Trump, who has repeatedly spoken of his impatience with Russia's failure to move towards ending the war, has said he is considering supplying Kyiv with Tomahawk missiles. He is due to meet Zelensky in the US on Friday. At a Nato summit on Wednesday, US Defence Secretary Pete Hegseth said the US and its allies would "impose costs on Russia for its continued aggression" if the war in Ukraine did not come to an end. The US stood ready to do its part "in ways that only the United States can do," Hegseth said, without elaborating further. He also encouraged Nato countries to contribute to the Prioritized Ukraine Requirements List (Purl) programme under which allies buy US-made weapons that are then sent on to Ukraine. Several countries have already said they would take part in Purl. Germany on Wednesday said it would spend $500m (£374m) on weaponry for Ukraine, while the Netherlands and Scandinavian countries have collectively pledged $1bn. Kyiv remains dependent on Western arms donations to push back Russian troops, although it has been developing its own defence industry. Research published by the Kiel Institute in Germany this week showed that military aid sent to Ukraine had declined by 43% compared with the first half of the year. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump is considering sending long-range Tomahawk cruise missiles to Ukraine. Asked by reporters on Air Force One on Sunday whether he would provide Kyiv with Tomahawks, Trump replied: "We'll see... I may". The missiles would be "a new step of aggression" in Ukraine's war with Russia, he said. The comments follow a phone call at the weekend between Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, who pushed for stronger military support to launch counter-attacks against Russia. Zelensky has said he will meet Trump in Washington on Friday for talks that will focus on air defence and long-range capabilities. Trump confirmed the Ukrainian leader's visit to the White House when a reporter asked if he plans to host Zelensky on Friday. "I think so, yeah," the US president said during a brief fuel stop as he travelled back to Washington from the Middle East. It will be Zelensky's third visit to Washington since January. Moscow has previously warned Washington against providing long-range missiles to Kyiv, saying it would cause a major escalation in the conflict and strain US-Russian relations. Tomahawk missiles have a range of 2,500 km (1,500 miles), which would put Moscow within reach of Ukraine. Trump's attitude to Russia has hardened in recent months as he has become impatient with Vladimir Putin's lack of cooperation in reaching a ceasefire deal with Kyiv. "I might tell them [Russia] that if the war is not settled, that we may very well, [send Tomahawks to Kyiv] we may not, but we may do it," he said. "Do they [Russia] want Tomahawks going in their direction? I don't think so," the US president added. On Sunday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said the topic of Tomahawks was of "extreme concern" to Russia. "Now is really a very dramatic moment in terms of the fact that tensions are escalating from all sides," he said. In September Peskov had dismissed the threat of Tomahawks, saying they would not be able to "change the dynamic" of the war. But in his comments on Sunday he noted that if Tomahawks were launched at Russia Moscow would not be able to tell whether they were carrying nuclear warheads. "What should the Russian Federation think? Just how should Russia react?", he said. Former Russian President Dmitry Medvedev then doubled down on Peskov's comments. "How should Russia respond? Exactly!" Medvedev said on social media. "The delivery of these missiles could end badly for everyone. And first of all – for Trump himself," he wrote. Medvedev, who over the last few years has grown into an increasingly hawkish figure, frequently posts on social media espousing more extreme positions than the Kremlin's. He and Trump have sparred online before. Comments by Medvedev in August led Trump to say he had ordered two nuclear submarines to move closer to Russia. Since the start of Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022, Kyiv has made multiple requests for long-range missiles, as it weighs up striking Russian cities far from the front lines of the grinding conflict. In their recent phone calls, Zelensky and Trump discussed Ukraine's bid to strengthen its military capabilities, including boosting its air defences and long-range arms. Ukrainian cities including Kyiv have repeatedly come under heavy Russian bombardment with drones and missiles. Russia has particularly targeted Ukraine's energy infrastructure as winter approaches, causing widespread power cuts. Last month, Trump's special envoy to Ukraine Keith Kellogg suggested the US president had authorised strikes deep into Russian territory, telling Fox News "there are no such things as sanctuaries" from attacks in the Russia-Ukraine war. Follow the twists and turns of Trump's second term with North America correspondent Anthony Zurcher's weekly US Politics Unspun newsletter. Readers in the UK can sign up here. Those outside the UK can sign up here. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A West Yorkshire councillor has described the "unnerving and unsettling" experience of surviving a missile attack while on a humanitarian aid mission to Ukraine. John Lawson was caught up in a Russian drone attack when he travelled to Lviv as part of a convoy to deliver emergency supplies last month. Five people lost their lives including four members of one family, but Mr Lawson and his brother, who was there with him, survived. The leader of Kirklees' Liberal Democrat group said: "It is hard to be terrified when you are sat in a room full of very strong people." "They are not afraid and living their lives is the way they fight the war," he said. "Just the act of getting up in the morning and going to work is an act of defiance." Maksym Kozytskyi, Lviv's regional head, said the incident was the largest attack on the region since Russia began its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. He said around 163 drones and missiles were identified in the area. Mr Lawson and seven other volunteers delivered items such as fire hoses, generators, medical supplies, walking frames and crutches. They also provided bedding and clothes, hand-knitted teddy bears, tools, two ambulances, two 4x4s, a pickup truck and a quadbike. Mr Lawson said: "It was clear that the kit that we took was received well. "It's not just the aid that we took, it is the people, it is the solidarity and that the rest of the world has not forgotten." A s part of the two-day mission to Lviv, organised by the charities British-Ukranian Aid and Caritas, the group attended a literary festival to deliver a book by author Michael Drapan, who is a senior member of the Huddersfield Ukrainian Club. Entitled Home from Home, the book is a 70-year history of the Huddersfield-Ukrainian community Copies of the book were to be put in local libraries and handed to supporters and activists engaged with civilian work, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service. Listen to highlights from West Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, catch up with the latest episode of Look North. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Jane Riddell and Lee Scott Riddell were found dead in their home in Huddersfield on 3 February 2025. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two decommissioned NHS ambulances have travelled 1,350 miles (2,173km) to wartorn Ukraine packed full of donated medical and humanitarian aid. Funds to buy the vehicles and sourcing the gifted items was arranged by Northampton Becket and Towcester Tove Benefice Rotary Groups. In total, the Northamptonshire charities have sent nine ambulances to the country, which has been at war since its invasion by Russia in 2022. Steve Challen, from the Towcester group, said: "There's a sense of satisfaction - but also a sense of emotion." The two teams set off on 5 October, arrived in Ukraine three days later - and returned to Northamptonshire on Friday. Mr Challen said: "Three years of full-scale invasion has had a devastating effect on millions of Ukrainians and those still living there are desperately in need of humanitarian support, as ordinary life remains out of reach." He said each vehicle, which had covered about 250,000 miles (402,340km), cost about £6,500 to buy and kit out. They were modified, with some passenger seats removed and a stretcher installed, conveying a total of about 50 tonnes of items to Ukraine, including winter clothing, wheelchairs, crutches, walkers, lifting frames, and generators. Mr Challen said: "We're always grateful for donations of unwanted medical items or items that have expired but are still clinically useful." "We're elated that at the success we've had, as we know these items will soon be distributed. "But there is always a sense of satisfaction but also a sense of emotion." Luckily the most recent journey went better than one last year, when another ambulance broke down in Germany. It was eventually repaired by a friendly German mechanic and made its way across Poland through the night to a planned handover. The Northampton Rotary club said the charity workers who received the ambulance were "ecstatic". Last month a lorry packed with furniture from a closed care home was sent to Ukraine's national eye hospital after 30 volunteers loaded it, with the help of the Towcester group. Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Its website says it is not taking any bookings on Saturday "due to unforeseen circumstances". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Bottles and cans are exchanged for a printed ticket that can be swapped for rewards. Det Con Jamie Yates says the incident was a "particularly violent, unprovoked attack". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine has captured an Indian national allegedly fighting for Russian forces, the first known Indian detained in the ongoing war. Sahil Majothi, 22, from the Indian state of Gujarat, went to Russia to study computer engineering two years ago. His mother claims he was falsely accused in a drug case last April. Mr Majothi joined the Russian army to avoid imprisonment over drug charges,  according to a video released by Ukraine's army on Tuesday. The Indian foreign ministry says it is investigating the case and has not received formal communication from Ukraine. The BBC has asked the Russian government for a response. In an interview with BBC Gujarati, Mr Majothi's mother Hasina Majothi said her son went to Russia in January 2024. He completed a three-month language course in St Petersburg before moving to Moscow for college, supporting himself part-time as a kitchenware courier. She alleges that in April 2024, someone slipped drugs into a parcel handed to Mr Majothi during his deliveries. "The police caught him with it and charged him," Ms Hasina said. According to Ms Hasina, her son was detained, held for six months and later sentenced to seven years in prison. The family hired a private lawyer in Russia to defend him, but they had no idea when or how he was drafted into the military. "I don't know how he ended up in Ukraine. I only found out through the viral video," Ms Hasina said. In the video released by the 63rd Mechanized Brigade of the Ukrainian army, Mr Majothi can be heard saying he was given a choice between joining the Russian army, with pay for his service, or serving jail time. He said he was told he would serve in the military for a year before being released. Mr Majothi claims that different people promised him varying amounts of money - from a hundred thousand to over a million roubles - but he never received any payment. He says he underwent 15 days of training in September 2024 and was sent to the battlefield a year later, on 30 September. The next day, on 1 October, Mr Majothi said he had an altercation with his commander, after which he separated from Russian soldiers. That was when he came across a Ukrainian dugout and asked them for help, he added. The BBC cannot independently verify the date or location of the video in which he makes these claims. On Wednesday, after the video went viral, Gujarat's Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS)  questioned Ms Hasina and her brother in Ahmedabad. Her relatives said she separated from her husband around her son's birth and supports her family as a seamstress while living with her maternal relatives. ATS officials confirmed Mr Majothi's arrest and subsequent detention in Russia. They said the family claimed to have had no contact with him since his arrest. At his former school in Morbi, teachers called Mr Majothi an "average student" but deeply motivated to fulfil his mother's dreams through education. They spoke on condition of anonymity. Local community leaders have also appealed to the government to intervene and secure his return. "Many young men like him have been trapped and dragged into the war," said  Kasam Sumra. "We appeal to the government to bring back Sahil and other young Indians who went abroad seeking work." Mr Majothi's arrest comes amid rising concerns over Indians being recruited into the Russian military. Reports say over 150 Indians, some on student or visitor visas, have enlisted. At least 12 have died in the conflict and 16 remain missing. In September, Indian officials urged Moscow to release and repatriate 27 Indian nationals who had been recruited into the army. The Indian government has consistently advised its citizens against participating in the ongoing war in Ukraine. "We once again strongly urge all Indian nationals to stay away from offers to serve in the Russian army, as they are fraught with danger and risk to life," a spokesperson from India's foreign ministry said last month. Additional reporting by Roxy Gagdekar Chhara from Ahmedabad and Nikita Yadav from Delhi Follow BBC News India on Instagram, YouTube, X and Facebook. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. A new exhibition charts Bombay's passage through the centuries via paintings, photographs and prints. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
First Lady Melania Trump says Russian President Vladimir Putin responded to her letter of concern about the child victims of the Russia-Ukraine war. She made the announcement on Friday, saying that after an "open channel of communication" with Putin, Ukranian children displaced in the war had been reunited with families. The First Lady's "peace letter" was hand delivered to Putin during his Alaska visit in August. President Donald Trump shared parts of the letter on social media. In it, the first lady pleads with Putin to protect children, writing that doing so "will do more than serve Russia alone" and "will serve humanity itself". "Eight children have been rejoined with their families during the past 24 hours," Mrs Trump said, flanked by American flags behind a podium in the White House. "Each child has lived in turmoil because of the war in Ukraine." Of the eight children, the First Lady said three separated from their families were displaced to Russia because of front-line fighting. Another young girl displaced by the conflict has now been returned from Ukraine to Russia, Mrs Trump says. The children's reunification with their families was facilitated by both Ukraine and Russia, the First Lady said, adding that she was given a detailed report with photographs and the "identities and circumstances" of each child. The US government "confirmed the facts", she said. Mrs Trump said she has "learned a lot about this matter" since her letter was first handed to Putin. She said he responded in writing. In her letter, the First Lady wrote: "Every child shares the same quiet dreams in their heart... They dream of love, possibility, and safety from danger." The announcement marks a positive development in her advocacy for children from the White House, which began during President Trump's first term. She launched the BE BEST initiative in January 2021, which the White House describes as an awareness campaign focused around the well-being of children globally. Earlier this year, the First Lady led an initiative for Congress to pass a bill banning revenge porn called the Take It Down Act. After the bill was signed, she said it was "a powerful statement that we stand united in protecting the dignity, privacy, and safety of our children". According to the Ukrainian government, at least 19,500 Ukrainian children have been deported and forcibly displaced from their homes to Russia and Russian-occupied territories since February 2022. Just 1,605 have come home so far, according to the government's Children of War database, external. The International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Children's Rights Commissioner, Maria Lvova-Belova, in 2023 for the alleged unlawful deportation of children. Russia denies the accusation and says it has protected children by moving them from a war zone for their safety. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The UK is "ready to progress" to using the full value of frozen Russian assets to support Ukraine's war effort, Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer has said. In a statement, the leaders of the UK, France and Germany said the joint action would "increase pressure" on Russian President Vladimir Putin and "bring Russia to the negotiation table". It added the move would be taken "in close cooperation" with the US. UK sanctions have frozen more than £25bn of Russian assets since Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. But until now, funds sent to Ukraine using Russian assets had only been taken from profits and interest accrued on them. Sir Keir told Ukrainian President Volodymr Zelensky that the UK, France and Germany were "united in wanting to drive progress towards using the full value of the immobilised Russian sovereign assets to end the war". He added that more sanctions "in the coming days and weeks" would add further pressure on Moscow. The announcement comes after European leaders met in Copenhagen last week to discuss using frozen Russian assets for a €140bn ($162bn; £121bn) loan to Ukraine. Last month, US President Donald Trump called on G7 allies to seize "or otherwise use" frozen Russian assets, according to the Financial Times. The value of frozen Russian assets in the EU is estimated to be almost €211bn (£181bn). Russia launched extensive missile and drone strikes across Ukraine on Friday, causing power cuts in large parts of Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, and eight other regions. Two people were killed and at least 20 people were injured in the attack, Ukrainian officials said. In a post on X following the attack, Zelensky wrote that the "cynical and calculated attack" targeted civilian and energy infrastructure. "What's needed is not empty words but decisive action - from the United States, Europe and the G7 - in delivering air defence systems and enforcing sanctions," he wrote. "Every sanction decision weakens Russia's war machine," Zelensky wrote, in a separate post. Also on Friday, Zelensky told the BBC he would urge Sir Keir to join the PURL programme, under which Nato countries buy weapons from the US to give to Ukraine. While praising the UK's strong support for Kyiv, he said it should send a clear signal that it would take part in the system, as well as impose more sanctions on Russia. Under the law, travel approvals must generally be granted and it remains unclear how the rule would be enforced if breached. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. It appears to be the first ship owned by a major European firm to go through the strait since the conflict began. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Overnight Russian missile and drone strikes have caused power cuts in large parts of Ukraine's capital, Kyiv, and eight other regions. Kyiv's authorities said power was later restored to more than 540,000 consumers in the city - but many households are still without electricity. Twelve people were injured in the city, said Mayor Vitaliy Klitschko. In the southern Zaporizhzhia region, a seven-year-old boy was killed and seven others injured. Ten people were also injured in the central Cherkasy region. Russia's defence ministry said its "massive" strike with high-precision weapons - including hypersonic missiles - targeted energy facilities used by Ukraine's "military-industrial complex". Russia - which launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022 - has escalated attacks on Ukrainian energy facilities as well as transport infrastructure as winter approaches. Reacting to the latest Russian strikes, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky reiterated calls for allies to act decisively to "defend people from this terror". "What's needed is not empty words but decisive action - from the United States, Europe and the G7 - in delivering air defence systems and enforcing sanctions," he wrote. Zelensky said that more than 450 drones and over 30 missiles targeted Ukraine's energy infrastructure, describing such attacks as "cynical and calculated" and against "everything that sustains normal life" as temperatures become colder. More than 5,800 residential buildings in Kyiv were without electricity on Friday morning, local officials said. The city's eastern districts were the worst hit. Images of firefighters putting out blazes at a 10-storey building have been released by Ukraine's state emergency services. Residents in more than 7,000 buildings were left for hours without water - but the supplies were restored in the evening, the authorities said. Public transport - including the capital's widely used underground system - was also badly affected, with some stations forced to close after the Russian strikes. So-called "invincibility" tents - where people can get hot water and charge their gadgets - have been set up on the streets of Kyiv and other cities. Ukraine's Energy Minister Svitlana Hrynchuk said Russia was "inflicting a massive strike" and repair crews were working to restore power. "Exactly three years ago - to the day - on 10 October, our power system experienced one of the first massive attacks. Today, Russia continues to use cold and darkness as a tool of terror," she said. Ukrainian officials said they were forced to roll out emergency power outages in Kyiv and the capital region, as well as in the Sumy, Kharkiv, Poltava, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Kirovohrad and Zaporizhzhia regions. On Thursday, Zelensky told reporters that Russia was intentionally trying to demolish the country's energy grid, with attacks already disrupting gas facilities. He said energy workers and authorities were bracing for further attacks. Also on Friday, Zelensky told the BBC he would urge UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer to join the PURL programme, under which Nato countries buy weapons from the US to give to Ukraine. While praising the UK's strong support for Kyiv - one of the largest in Europe - he said it should send a clear signal it will take part in the system, as well as imposing more sanctions on Russia. Downing Street later said Sir Keir and Zelensky had spoken, and agreed more sanctions on Russia "in the coming days and weeks" would put further "pressure" on Moscow. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A white tiger traumatised by the sound of bombs in war-torn Ukraine is one veterinary check away from being cleared to travel to his new home in the UK. Aleks was found abandoned last year in the Kharkiv region of north-east Ukraine before he was taken to an animal shelter in Chubynske, near Kyiv. Lincolnshire Wildlife Park, near Boston, has been busy preparing for Aleks's arrival, and are now just waiting on a veterinary team to check he is healthy enough for the long journey across Europe. Park chief executive Steve Nichols said: "He's going to come massively traumatised, they're still being bombed as we're talking now." He said he had learned from emails sent by the Ukrainian animal rescuers that some of the animals they were caring for had already died due to shell shock. On waiting for Aleks to arrive, he said: "The poor creature is sat in this horrendous place and we just feel frustrated we could get him over here and sort the paperwork afterwards. "Obviously we just can't do that. "The next four weeks we will see movement and will definitely have a date and hopefully he will be en route to Lincolnshire." Aleks will be driven from Ukraine through Poland and northern Europe and then from Dover to his new home at the wildlife park at Friskney in Lincolnshire. Before his rescue and treatment, the tiger was dehydrated, infested with parasites and exhausted, as well as having gastrointestinal issues, and liver and kidney issues, the park said. Mr Nichols said the park had got almost everything ready for Aleks following a fundraising campaign set up to help cover the £100,000 cost of his new enclosure. A gate was installed at his enclosure on Monday, leaving a swimming pool and play frame as the final items to be added. Once he arrives, Aleks will go through a three-stage process to get him settled - starting with an indoor closure with a sleeping area, playroom and feeding room. With veterinary help, he will then go into an outdoor enclosure, and then hopefully join the other tigers at the park. Mr Nichols said he hoped the different stages would get Aleks "used to the Lincolnshire sunshine and peace and quiet". Listen to highlights from Lincolnshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices The annual race was created in honour of Queen Elizabeth II's platinum jubilee, honouring her favourite breed. A rescue charity says it will continue to monitor two swans at Cleethorpes Country Park. The large bronze work has been loaned to the Wiltshire safari park by guitarist Ronnie Wood. The release comes not long after the UK Wild Otter Trust had to move to a new base. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"This technology is our future threat," warns Serhiy Beskrestnov, who has just got his hands on a newly intercepted Russian drone. It was no ordinary drone either, he discovered. Assisted by artificial intelligence, this unmanned aerial vehicle can find and attack targets on its own. Beskrestnov has examined numerous drones in his role as Ukrainian defence forces consultant. Unlike other models, it didn't send or receive any signals, so could not be jammed. Russian and Ukrainian forces have both been testing AI in this war, and in some areas they are already using it, for finding targets, gathering intelligence and de-mining. And for the Ukrainian army, AI has become indispensable. "Our military gets more than 50,000 video streams [from the front line] every month which are analysed by artificial intelligence," says Ukraine's deputy defence minister, Yuriy Myronenko. "This helps us quickly process this massive data, identify targets and place them on a map." AI-empowered tech is seen as a tool that can enhance strategic planning, make the most of resources and ultimately save lives. But when it comes to unmanned weapons systems, it is also transforming the battlefield. Ukrainian troops already use AI-based software so that drones lock on a target and then fly autonomously for the last few hundred metres until the mission is over. Jamming is impossible and shooting down such a small flying object is not easy. Ultimately these systems are expected to evolve into fully autonomous weapons that can find and destroy targets on their own. All a soldier will need to do is press a button on a smartphone app, explains Yaroslav Azhnyuk, chief executive of Ukrainian developer The Fourth Law. The drone will do the rest, he says, finding the target, dropping explosives, assessing the damage and then returning to base. "And it would not even require piloting skills from the soldier," he adds. Interceptor drones with that kind of automation could significantly strengthen air defences against Russian long-range attack drones, such as the notorious Shaheds. "A computer-guided autonomous system can be better than a human in so many ways," says Azhnyuk. "It can be more perceptive. It can see the target sooner than a human can. It can be more agile." Yuriy Myronenko says that kind of system does not exist yet, but he suggests Ukraine is close to finishing its development. "We have partly implemented it in some devices," says the deputy defence minister. There could even be thousands of such systems in place by the end of 2026, claims Azhnyuk. But Ukrainian developers are cautious about fully making use of defence systems that rely entirely on AI, with no human involvement. The risk is that AI may fail to distinguish a Ukrainian soldier from a Russian, as they may be wearing the same uniform, says Vadym, who declined to give his surname. His company DevDroid makes remotely controlled machine guns, that use AI to automatically detect people and track them. Because of concerns over friendly fire, he says they don't have an automatic shooting option. "We can enable it, but we need to get more experience and more feedback from the ground forces in order to understand when it is safe to use this feature." There are also fears that automated systems will violate the rules of war. How will they avoid harming civilians, or distinguish soldiers who want to surrender? For the deputy defence minister, the final decision in such circumstances should rest with a human, although AI would make it "easier to decide". But there are no guarantees that states or armed groups will adhere to international humanitarian norms. So counteracting these systems becomes even more critical. How do you stop a "swarm of drones" when jamming or using jets, tanks or missiles is rendered ineffective? Ukraine's highly successful "Spider Web" operation, when 100 drones targeted Russian air bases last June, was probably assisted by AI tools. Many in Ukraine fear that Moscow will copy that tactic, not just on the front line but beyond it too. Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky warned the UN last month that AI was contributing to "the most destructive arms race in human history". He called for global rules for the use of AI in weapons, and said the issue was "just as urgent as preventing the spread of nuclear weapons". On the tech giant's 50th year, we ask analysts to give their top three Apple successes and misses A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. It's been nominated for two Bafta Games Awards - but why have mundane job games like PowerWash Simulator 2 become so popular? US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
It was another busy day at work. Russian forces had attacked my home region of Zaporizhzhia again: a region in the south of Ukraine, split between the Russian invaders, who claim it all as theirs, and the defending Ukrainians. Sitting in my office in central London, I was feeling nostalgic. I decided to take a quick look at the latest satellite images of my childhood village - the poetically titled Verkhnya Krynytsya (or Upper Well in English), in the Russian-occupied part of the region, just a few kilometres from the front lines. I could see the familiar dirt tracks, and the houses drowning in lush vegetation. But something caught my eye. Amid all the apparent quiet of a small village that I remember so well, a new feature had appeared: a well-used road. And it led right to my childhood home. Satellite images show a path first appearing in the summer of 2022, four months after the occupation began. Images from winter showed it reappearing and a car making use of it in January 2023. I could think of only one group of people who could be using the path in an occupied village so close to the front line: Russian soldiers. Only they have reason to be out and about in a war zone. The truth is that my childhood village is not quiet anymore. Verkhnya Krynytsya was occupied by Russia shortly after the start of the full-scale invasion in February 2022. By that point, my old house was likely vacant. My family had sold it long ago, but I visited Verkhnya Krynytsya at least once a year before it was occupied, and saw the house sitting apparently abandoned, its garden overgrown. It was hardly surprising: the village was small and sleepy at the best of times, and for anyone still under retirement age, looking for work meant moving elsewhere. But many stayed, and more than a thousand people were still there when Russia launched its invasion. Two days later, Ukrainian authorities handed out 43 Kalashnikov rifles to help the villagers fight off the Russians. At a community gathering, residents decided not to use them against the invaders. A month later, village head Serhiy Yavorsky was captured by the Russians, who beat and tortured him with electricity, needles and acid, according to testimony given in a Ukrainian court. The Russians also targeted a sewage treatment works outside the village and set up a command post there once the Ukrainians had abandoned the facility. Even the village's surroundings have changed irreparably. Before Russia's full-scale invasion, Verkhnya Krynytsya sat on the beautiful Kakhovka reservoir, which was so vast we used to call it "the Sea". You could see it from pretty much anywhere in the village. It's where locals went swimming in the summer, and where visitors from across the region came in the winter to go ice-fishing. One of my earliest memories is of local women singing Ukrainian folk songs as the sun was setting into the Kakhovka on a warm summer evening. The Sea disappeared after the Kakhovka dam was destroyed in June 2023, leading to devastating floods that ruined homes and farmland. To find out what conditions in Verkhnya Krynytsya are like now, I tried reaching out to locals. Predictably, obtaining answers was very difficult. Many have left, and those who are still in the village - as is the case in the other occupied parts of Ukraine - are afraid of speaking to the media. Frontline locations are particularly lawless places, where retribution from Russian forces can be swift and brutal. Social media groups about Verkhnya Krynytsya went silent after it was occupied, and the questions I posted there were left unanswered. Asking someone to go and have a look at my house was out of the question. What used to be a peaceful, sleepy village has turned into a zone of fear. The danger in Verkhnya Krynytsya also comes from the sky. The village's proximity to the front line means it is a dangerous location, exposed to frequent aerial attacks from the Ukrainians. One acquaintance told me that locals preferred to stay indoors for fear of being hit by drones. "It's very dangerous there," I was told. "They are active, and they can target you, your house or your car. Our village has changed a lot, Vitaly." So, given the danger and devastation caused to Verkhnya Krynytsya by the war, who could have possibly made the track marks leading to and from my old home? It is highly unlikely anyone would choose to move to the village now - with the exception of Russian soldiers. Many of them moved into vacant houses after capturing Verkhnya Krynytsya. In June 2022 authorities in Zaporizhzhia said they had information that Russian troops were staying in the village. This is when satellite images first show signs of the path at my old home. To check if I was right in assuming that Russian soldiers had likely moved into my old house, I approached the Ukrainian 128th Detached Heavy Mechanised Brigade, which is involved in operations in the area. "You're not wrong. It's extremely likely," its spokesman Oleksandr Kurbatov told me. As locals have been fleeing frontline areas, they are being replaced with Russian military, he said. "If there are not enough empty houses, demand is running high. Of course, it's usually military personnel from the occupation army," he told me. Because nobody in the village was willing to take the risk of having a look at my house, I asked my BBC Verify colleague Richard Irvine-Brown to obtain and analyse recent satellite images. They showed a pattern of movement around the house where I grew up. There was no sign of a path to the property in March 2022, a month into the invasion. Aside from the faint path seen in two satellite images in June, the property seemed ignored. Then the path reappeared in December, and a car was seen using it in January 2023. We don't have any images for the property again until August, by when the track had become well established. The path fades and reappears with the seasons, showing that whoever is using it only does so periodically. It seems the property is being used during the winter - and likely by Russian soldiers, who have been moving into vacant properties. This is plausible, as biting Ukrainian winters can make it too cold for men or their supplies to stay in trenches, makeshift dwellings and storage. The truth about what happened to my house may not become known for a long time yet - certainly not while the village is under occupation. For now, it seems that my old home has become a tiny cog in the wider machine of Russia's war in Ukraine. Additional reporting by Richard Irvine-Brown For more on this story listen to Vitaly Shevchenko on Ukrainecast A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Three people have been killed and at least nine others injured in Ukraine's latest attack on the Russian border region of Belgorod, according to its governor, Vyacheslav Gladkov. The strike hit the village of Maslova Pristan early on Wednesday, Gladkov said. Emergency workers were searching for people feared trapped under rubble. It is the third consecutive day Ukraine has struck the region, leaving thousands of people without power and at least two others dead. Ukraine has not commented on the attacks but has repeatedly struck targets inside Russia, including Belgorod, during the war. Russian strikes also caused power outages in several Ukrainian regions, Ukraine's energy regulator said. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. As winter approaches, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said Russia is targeting Ukraine's critical energy-generating facilities, while Kyiv has been targeting key Russian oil refineries. Wednesday's series of drone and missile attacks damaged homes, vehicles and power lines in multiple districts of Belgorod, Gladkov wrote on Telegram. He shared photographs from Maslova Pristan showing a sports centre with its roof and walls blown apart, and said rescue workers were clearing debris and assessing the damage. In the nearby town of Moshchenoye, six people - including a child - were injured when a rocket and drone struck a truck, while a man was hurt when a car was hit in Masychevo. The strikes follow two days of similar attacks that have caused blackouts and structural damage in Belgorod city and surrounding areas. Videos verified by BBC Verify showed explosions and fires near a local power station late on Tuesday. Nearly 40,000 residents were affected by power cuts across seven municipalities, according to Gladkov. Ukraine has dramatically increased the number of attacks launched against Russian oil refineries in recent months, sparking fuel shortages and price rises in some parts of the country, the BBC has found. At least 21 of Russia's 38 major refineries - where crude oil is converted into usable fuel like petrol and diesel - have been hit since January, almost half again as many as during the whole of 2024. The strikes have contributed to fuel shortages and rising prices across several Russian regions. Meanwhile, Russian attacks on Ukraine are continuing. Ukraine's air force said on Wednesday its defences shot down or disabled 154 drones, but 22 struck targets in 11 locations. Debris from intercepted drones caused fires and damage to civilian infrastructure. At least five people were killed late last week when Russia sent over 50 ballistic missiles and around 500 drones into nine regions across Ukraine. Zelensky said Moscow is again targeting Ukraine's energy infrastructure ahead of winter and has announced new funding to repair damaged facilities and create a reserve of equipment to restore power supplies. "Despite all the challenges, we must support the communities currently facing the hardest times," he said. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Great British Bake Off contestant who fled the war in Ukraine said she hoped she had made her country proud following her exit from the show. Nataliia, who now lives in East Yorkshire, failed to win over the judges during pastry week and became the sixth contestant to leave the Channel 4 show. The 32-year-old office assistant said she had put  "heart and soul" into the competition and developed a mindset to "keep going" when things went wrong. "I am proud of myself and I think my little girl will be proud and I hope I have made my country a bit proud of me," she said. Judges Paul Hollywood and Dame Prue Leith asked the bakers to make savoury plaits for their signature, a traditional gala pie for the technical and an intricately sculpted tart for the showstopper challenge. Nataliia, who moved to the UK four years ago, said her departure from the show at the end of Tuesday's episode "was a bit unexpected". "I honestly thought my bakes that week were fairly good - and the judges seemed pleased, especially with my showstopper," she said. "I was emotional, of course - not because of disappointment but because I didn't feel quite ready to say goodbye. "But the other bakers were amazing. They wrapped me in hugs, kind words, and even a few tears." Nataliia said "the magic and challenge" of the show was that one moment it could "lift you up, and the next can really test you". "I've learned to trust myself more - to bake with my heart, to adapt under pressure and to share my culture with confidence," she said. In future, Nataliia said she'd love to continue sharing Ukrainian bakes with people in the UK, "maybe through pop-ups, books, or even a little cake cafe one day". "Being in the tent gave me the confidence to dream bigger - and now, I'd love to keep going," she added. "I also hope to keep using baking to support Ukrainian causes and connect cultures." Prior to her exit, co-host Noel Fielding announced medical student Jasmine as star baker for the third week in a row. Listen to highlights from Hull and East Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
British microcomputers were among more than 100,000 foreign-made parts contained in Russian missiles and drones used in Sunday's deadly strikes on Ukraine, Volodymyr Zelensky has said. The Ukrainian president called for further "effective" sanctions after saying parts originating in allied countries including Germany, Japan and the US have been identified in Russian weapons. The Department for Business and Trade (DBT) said it had recently undertaken efforts to crack down on UK firms whose products have continued to make their way into Russia's military supply chain. "We take reports of goods from UK companies being found in Russian weaponry incredibly seriously," a government spokesperson said. The spokesperson said the government had "banned the export of thousands of goods to Russia including every battlefield item Ukraine has brought to our attention," adding that they have imposed "the most severe package of sanctions". Any person or firm that does not comply with sanctions could face "large financial penalties or criminal prosecution". Over £20bn ($26.9bn) of UK trade with Russia is now under sanctions, according to the DBT. Writing on X, Zelensky said "microcomputers for drone flight control are produced in the United Kingdom". He added it was "crucial to shut down every scheme that circumvents sanctions", and said countries which support Ukraine "already possess the detailed data on each company and each product" still being used by Russia. Components originating in China, Taiwan and the Netherlands have also been identified in Russian weapons, he continued. Four members of one family, including a 15-year-old girl, were killed by a strike in the village of Lapaivka on Sunday, as Russia launched 549 missiles and drones overnight, primarily against the western region of Lviv. Since Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, it has become the most-sanctioned nation in the world. However, it has adapted its economy and manufacturing to avoid collapse, with massively increased military spending resulting in continued growth. Russia has also found willing buyers in China and India for its energy exports after European nations slashed how much they purchased, continuing an important revenue source for the Kremlin. However, a number of western experts have recently pointed to what they say are growing signs that the economy is now under an ever increasing strain. In June, Russia's Minister for Economic Development, Maxim Reshetnikov, warned that the country's economy was teetering "on the brink of recession". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Five people have died and tens of thousands have been left without power in Ukraine after intense Russian missile and drone attacks overnight, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has said. Four members of one family, including a 15-year-old girl, were killed by a strike in the village of Lapaivka as attacks mostly targeted the western region of Lviv. One person also died in Zaporizhzhia. Zelensky said Russia fired more than 50 missiles and around 500 attack drones. Ukraine's air force put the combined figure at 549. Russia's defence ministry said it had successfully carried out a "massive" strike on Ukrainian military and infrastructure targets. Ukraine's neighbour Poland scrambled fighter jets to ensure the safety of Polish airspace, its military confirmed. Allied Nato aircraft were also deployed. Lviv endured several hours of strikes, leading to the suspension of public transport services and the cutting of electrical supplies. Maksym Kozytskyi, Lviv's regional head, said it was the largest attack on the region since Russia began its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. He said around 163 drones and missiles were identified in the area. Kozytskyi said the arms targeted residential buildings, hospitals, civilian industrial facilities and gas transportation infrastructure. He added that the attack was "especially cynical" as it came as Ukrainians typically begin heating their homes. Another family member of those killed in Lapaivka was injured, as were two neighbours. The Ivano-Frankivsk, Chernihiv, Sumy, Kharkiv, Kherson, Odesa, and Kirovohrad regions were also targeted, according to Zelensky. He added: "We need more protection and faster implementation of all defense agreements, especially on air defense, to deprive this aerial terror of any meaning. "A unilateral ceasefire in the skies is possible - and it is precisely that which could open the way to real diplomacy." Russia continues to focus its attacks on Ukraine's energy infrastructure as winter approaches. Kyiv's energy ministry said overnight attacks caused damage in Chernihiv, Sumy and Zaporizhzhia. In the latter, Russia's overnight attack left "more than 73,000 consumers... without electricity" after a power plant was struck, according to Ivan Fedorov, the regional head. A woman was killed and several others injured in Zaporizhzhia. A 16-year-old girl was among those receiving medical assistance, Fedorov added, posting photos apparently showing a partly destroyed multi-storey block and a burnt-out car from the site of the attack. Emergency outages were implemented in Chernihiv and Sumy, the energy ministry added. Lviv's mayor Andriy Sadovyi said part of the city - 70 km (43 miles) from the border with Poland - had no power, adding that city's air defence systems were engaged heavily in repelling first a drone and then a Russian missile attack. Ukraine's air force said it recorded direct hits by eight Russian missiles and 57 drones at 20 locations across the country, as well as fragments from downed arms at six locations. It said 478 missiles and drones were downed and six did not reach their targets. On the ground, Russian forces have occupied most of Ukraine's eastern Donbas region, including Luhansk and Donetsk, since the start of its invasion. Russia currently controls around a fifth of Ukrainian territory, including the Crimean peninsula it annexed in 2014. The Russian assaults came days after a US official said the US would support Ukraine launching strikes deep inside Russian territory. When asked about US President Donald Trump's position on the matter, US Special Envoy to Ukraine Keith Kellogg told Fox News: "The answer is yes, use the ability to hit deep, there are no such things as sanctuaries." Ukraine has repeatedly attacked targets inside Russia, but has been limited by the range of the weapons it has been supplied. It has recently been stepping up strikes on Russian oil refineries, leading to petrol shortages in parts of the country. In Russia, air defence units destroyed 32 Ukrainian drones overnight, the state-owned news agency RIA reported on Sunday, citing data from Russia's defence ministry. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least 30 people have been injured following a Russian drone strike on a railway station in north-east Ukraine, Ukrainian President Volodymy Zelensky has said. In a post on X, he said that preliminary reports indicated train staff and passengers were at the site of the strike in the city of Shostka, in the Sumy region. Emergency services are on the scene and have begun helping people, he said, adding that information regarding the injured was still being established. He also posted a video showing a damaged train carriage on fire. "The Russians could not have been unaware that they were targeting civilians. This is terrorism, which the world has no right to ignore," Zelensky wrote on X. "Every day Russia takes people's lives. And only strength can make them stop." According to the regional governor Oleh Hryhorov and the Ukrainian Railways body, there were two strikes which hit two passenger trains. Three children, aged 8, 11 and 14, were among the injured, Hryhorov said. The second strike hit at a time when evacuations from the area were already under way, a statement from the railways body said. It represented a "vile" attack "aimed at stopping communication with our frontline communities", the statement continued. Shostka lies in north-eastern Ukraine, some 50km from the Russian border. Ukrainian Railways head Oleksandr Pertsovsky told reporters, including AFP, that there was "no military purpose" to the attack which instead was designed to "sow panic among people". He also said there had been an intensification of Russian attacks on railway infrastructure. Zelensky in his post also called for "action" from the West, saying: "We've heard resolute statements from Europe and America – and it's high time to turn them all into reality." Russia has intensified its aerial assaults on Ukraine in recent weeks, regularly launching hundreds of drones and dozens of missiles. Ukraine has long been urging its Western allies to provide it with enough advanced air defence weaponry to be able to cope with almost daily Russian strikes. Last Sunday, a massive 12-hour strike involving hundreds of drones and nearly 50 missiles left four people dead in Kyiv and at least 70 injured. Ukraine's deputy minister Ivan Havryliuk has also argued that strengthening the country's air defence systems represented an investment in the wider security of Europe, referring to recent drone activity in European air space. US President Donald Trump and Europe have been leading efforts to end the war - but Russian President Vladimir Putin has repeatedly rejected calls for a ceasefire. Kyiv and its allies accuse the Russian president of stalling tactics as his troops continue making slow progress on the battlefield - despite the reporting of very high combat casualties. The US president has appeared increasingly frustrated with the lack of eagerness from the Kremlin to begin peace talks. And, although he has desisted from imposing further sanctions on Russia, Trump has shifted his position on the war, saying he thought Ukraine could take back the land it had lost to Moscow. Earlier this year the Trump administration approved a new mechanism which sees European allies purchase US-made weapons for Ukraine. The US is also considering a request by Ukraine for long-range missiles that could hit major Russian cities far from the front line. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
French photojournalist Antoni Lallican has been killed in a Russian drone strike in eastern Ukraine, the Ukrainian military has said. Grigoriy Ivanchenko, a Ukrainian photojournalist working alongside Mr Lallican, was injured in the same attack on the outskirts of Komyshuvakha, a village in the Donetsk region. The European and International Federations of Journalists (EFJ and IFJ) said this was the first instance of a journalist being killed by a drone in Ukraine. Mr Lallican, a Paris-based photojournalist, had been documenting the war since March 2022 - a month after Russia launched its full-scale invasion - earning him the prestigious Victor Hugo Prize for photography in 2024. The two journalists had been embedded with the 4th Mechanised Brigade near Komyshuvakha, around 15km (12 miles) from the frontline, at the time of the attack. According to a statement from the Hans Lucas photo agency, both journalists were wearing personal protective equipment, and their bulletproof vests had identification marks with the word "PRESS" on them. A witness told the BBC that the noise of chainsaws - being used to build defensive positions - may have prevented them from hearing the drone overhead. The brigade's press officer, Anastasia Haletska - who was also wounded in the attack - said she managed to apply tourniquets to Mr Ivanchenko, before both of them were taken to a hospital in nearby Kramatorsk. Mr Lallican was killed instantly, she said. Mr Ivanchenko is in a stable condition, but had to have his leg amputated. French President Emmanuel Macron shared a tribute to Mr Lallican and said he had been a victim of a Russian drone attack. "I express my sincere condolences to his family, loved ones, and all his colleagues who, risking their lives, inform us and bear witness to the reality of war," he wrote on X. Mr Lallican's work has been published by numerous outlets, including French newspapers Le Monde and Le Figaro. His work in Ukraine, which traces the "consequences of the war", has taken him across the country, from Odesa, in the south-west, to Kharkiv, in the north-east, according to his website. Families fleeing in the early days of the invasion, elderly men and women refusing to leave their homes under Russian bombardment, and soldiers fighting and living on the frontline populate his photographs, among many others whose lives have been upended by the war. According to the EFJ and IFJ, 17 journalists have been killed since the invasion began. In a joint statement, they said: "We pay tribute to the courage of Antoni Lallican and all the journalists who continue to cover the war. We demand that the perpetrators of his crime be brought to justice. Sergiy Tomilenko, president of the National Union of Journalists of Ukraine (NUJU), accused Russia of "deliberately hunting those trying to document war crimes". "For journalists, every trip to the frontline zone is a deadly risk. Antoni Lallican took this risk again and again, coming to Ukraine, traveling to Donbas, documenting what many prefer not to see," he said in a statement. "He built a visual bridge between the world and Ukrainian reality. Now he himself has become part of this tragic story". The Kremlin has not commented on the attack. With additional reporting by Volodymyr Lozhko. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Labour MP has called Warwickshire County Council's removal of the Ukrainian flag from its headquarters "deeply troubling", Matt Western, Labour MP for Warwick and Leamington, took to social media to make comments on the Reform UK-led council's new flag rule. The policy, which bans all flags apart from the union jack, St George's and Warwickshire County flags, came into place after a row over a Progress Pride Flag outside the authority's Shire Hall office in Warwick during Pride Month in June. Western wrote on Facebook that his concerns about the removal of the Ukrainian flag was not about protocol - but about principle. The BBC has contacted  Warwickshire County Council and its leader. Councillor George Finch had asked for the Progress Pride Flag to be removed when he was elected as leader of the council, but chief executive Monica Fogarty - who previously held responsibility for deciding which flags could be flown - refused. The council's cabinet voted to hand the decision-making power to the council chairman, Reform councillor Edward Harris last month. Western wrote on Wednesday: "It's a pattern that speaks volumes. "Since Russia's illegal invasion of Ukraine, over 950 Ukrainian families have found refuge in Warwickshire through the Homes for Ukrainians scheme. "Flying the Ukrainian flag was a simple, powerful act of solidarity with those who've fled war and with those still fighting for freedom. "Ukraine is still at war. Russia started it. And Reform UK's decision to remove the flag sends entirely the wrong message, not just to Ukrainians, but to all of us who believe in compassion, inclusion, and standing up to tyranny." Western called council leader Finch's approach to leadership "tone-deaf", adding that the country deserved better than "divisive and regressive politics". He added:  "I urge the County Council to reverse this decision and fly the Ukrainian flag once again." Speaking about the new flag policy during the cabinet meeting on 4 September, Finch said: "This county, everyone that's in it, is identified by three things - The United Kingdom, England and our county." The BBC has contacted George Finch and Warwickshire County Council for comment. Follow BBC Coventry & Warwickshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. Two people are arrested after the body of a man in his 50s was found in a road. Take a look at these delightful photos of the West Midlands we have been sent this week. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A charity minibus used to transport Ukrainian orphans in Edinburgh has been stolen. The Dnipro Kids vehicle was parked in the Joppa area in the east of the city when it went missing. It is a 17-seater Ford Transit van with blue and yellow stripes and the charity logo. Dnipro Kids says it is a precious asset, and is asking anyone with any information to get it touch. Stevie Carr, Dnipro Kids chairman and co-founder, told BBC Scotland it went missing some time over the weekend. The vehicle had been parked outside a garage by mechanics following its MOT and was last seen by the charity on Friday. When they went to pick it up on Monday it had gone. "We are devastated and shocked that someone would steal a minibus with a charity logo so it's quite clear it's Ukrainian support and it's for children so we can't believe someone would actually steal that," Mr Carr said. The vehicle is the charity's only minibus  and is used to transport 52 children to school and other activities. "The minibus has been invaluable to get them to school and get shopping and hospital visits and dentists," he added. "We live in hope someone still has it and they hear about this and they feel guilty about taking a minibus away from children so they give it back. "Even if they leave it somewhere and alerts us to it that would be helpful." Dnipro Kids was started 20 years ago by a group of Hibs supporters following a trip to watch a match against Dnipro in Ukraine. The children were then brought to Edinburgh when Ukraine was invaded by Russia in 2022. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Princess Royal made a surprise visit to Ukraine on Tuesday to highlight the "traumatic experiences of children living on the frontline of the conflict", Buckingham Palace has said. Princess Anne left a toy bear at a memorial for children killed since Russia's full-scale invasion, and spoke to young people alleged to have been taken from their homes by Russian forces. She also discussed the UK's support for Ukraine and its ongoing resistance with President Volodomyr Zelensky. The official visit, taken at the request of the Foreign Office, comes just weeks after her nephew Prince Harry visited war-wounded veterans during a surprise visit to Kyiv. Anne, who is the King's sister, paid her respects at the Children's Memorial alongside First Lady Olena Zelenska, who opened the site in the northeastern city of Kharkiv. The princess also visited the Child Rights Protection Centre, set up during the conflict to support young people affected by the war, where she spoke to children who had been reunited with their families and staff "working tirelessly" to bring more young people back. Kyiv estimates that at least 19,500 Ukrainian children have been deported and forcibly displaced from their homes to Russia and Russian-occupied territories since February 2022. Just 1,605 have come home so far, according to the government's Children of War database. The International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant for Rusian President Vladimir Putin and his Children's Rights Commissioner, Maria Lvova-Belova, in 2023 for the alleged unlawful deportation of children. Russia denies the accusation and says it has protected children by moving them from a war zone for their safety. Anne's visit comes weeks after the UK announced new sanctions targeting those supporting the alleged attempts "to forcibly deport and indoctrinate" Ukrainian children. The princess also met female police and armed forces officers working to protect women and children, spoke to injured veterans and those with "conflict-related trauma" at a rehabilitation centre, and toured St Sophia's Cathedral in Kyiv. She also visited the Kherson Cultural Exhibition, which tells the story of the southern city recaptured by Ukrainian forces in November 2022 and described by the Palace as "a symbol of Ukraine's strength, resistance and struggle". It is the second visit by a Royal to the country in less than a month, after the Duke of Sussex visited Kyiv in mid-September. Other Royals have likewise shown support for Ukraine since the war began more than three years ago - including the King, who welcomed Zelensky to his Sandringham estate in Norfolk in March. He also raised the conflict during US President Donald Trump's recent state visit to the UK, saying: "Today, as tyranny once again threatens Europe, we and our allies stand together in support of Ukraine, to deter aggression and secure peace." The Prince of Wales met Ukrainian refugees during a two-day visit to Estonia in March - where he said their resilience was "amazing". Sign up here to get the latest royal stories and analysis every week with our Royal Watch newsletter. Those outside the UK can sign up here. Andrew-Mountbatten Windsor and his family are absent from the traditional family event. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Ukrainian national has been arrested by police in Poland on suspicion of involvement in a series of explosions that blew up the Nord Stream gas pipelines under the Baltic Sea. The man, identified as a trained diver called Volodymyr Z, was detained under a European arrest warrant in the early hours of Tuesday in a town near Warsaw, German prosecutors said. Several months into Russia's full-scale invasion, three of the four Nord Stream gas pipelines from Russia to Germany were ruptured by explosives. Mystery has long surrounded the blasts and no-one admitted ordering the attack. Ukraine denied involvement; Russia came under Western suspicion and Moscow blamed the US and UK. The explosions cut off a key source of natural gas for Europe when leaders were facing an energy crisis triggered by Russia's war, although Moscow had suspended supplies through the Nord Stream 1 pipelines, and Nord Stream 2 never started operation. German prosecutors investigating the attack issued their first arrest warrant in August 2024, naming the man as Volodymyr Z. Reports at the time said he was a diving instructor living in Pruszkow, south-east of Warsaw, but authorities had been unable to find him. However he was not the first suspect to be detained in the case. Another Ukrainian national called Serhii K was picked up by Italian authorities in the province of Rimini last month. In a statement on Tuesday, German prosecutors said the suspect held by Polish police "belonged to a group of individuals who placed explosive devices on the Nord Stream 1 and Nord Stream 2 gas pipelines" which detonated on 26 September 2022. He had "participated in the dives required for this", they said, adding that he was strongly suspected "of jointly causing an explosion with explosives... anti-constitutional sabotage... and destruction of buildings". A spokesman for the Warsaw district prosecutor's office, Piotr Antoni Skiba, told the BBC that proceedings had begun against a suspect from Pruszkow named as Volodymr Z. "He is currently being investigated for the execution of a European Arrest Warrant," the prosecutor said. The man's lawyer said he had been detained in the early hours of Tuesday and said his extradition to Germany would be challenged as the war in Ukraine made the warrant inadmissible. "The attack on Nord Stream infrastructure concerns one of the pipeline's owners, Gazprom, which directly finances the military operations in Ukraine," Tymoteusz Paprocki told Reuters. Meanwhile, the case against Serhii K is currently going through the courts in Italy. Accused of playing a co-ordinating role in the Nord Stream blasts, his extradition to Germany was cleared by a court in Bologna and then his lawyer appealed against the decision to Italy's highest court of appeal. Prosecutors believe the suspects were part of a team that sailed a yacht called Andromeda from the German port of Rostock out into the Baltic near the Danish island of Bornholm. The yacht had previously been rented from a German company with the help of forged identity documents via intermediaries, they said. Like Volodymyr Z, Serhii K is"strongly suspected of jointly causing an explosion and of sabotage undermining the constitution". German reports say seven suspects have been identified in connection with the Nord Stream blasts, although one has since died. Among the group were former members of a private diving school in Kyiv. Germany, Denmark, and Sweden all opened investigations into the incident but the Swedish and Danish investigations closed in February without identifying any suspect. There is no evidence so far linking Ukraine, Russia or any other state to the attacks. Under the law, travel approvals must generally be granted and it remains unclear how the rule would be enforced if breached. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. The whale became stranded on a sandbank before it was rescued, only to swim into shallow waters further along the coast. The final six nations have qualified for the 2026 World Cup - this is your essential lowdown on the expanded edition of the tournament. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An entire family - a married couple and their two young sons - have been killed in an overnight Russian drone attack in Ukraine's north-eastern Sumy region, local officials have said. Regional head Oleh Hryhorov said a residential building was hit in the village of Chernechchyna. The bodies of the two children, aged four and six, and their parents were later recovered from the wreckage. Ukraine's air force said its units shot down 46 out of 65 Russian drones across the country - but there were 19 direct hits in six locations. Russia's military has not commented. In a statement, it said 81 Ukrainian drones were destroyed overnight in five Russian regions. No casualties were reported. Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. In a post on Telegram on Tuesday morning, Hryhorov accused Russian forces of deliberately targeting a residential building in Chernechchyna. He said the loss of an entire family was "a tragedy that we will never forget or forgive". Ukraine's state emergencies service DSNS later said two residential buildings were partially destroyed in the village. It also posted photos showing firefighters tackling blazes after the Russian strike. In recent weeks, Russia has intensified its aerial assaults on Ukraine, regularly launching hundreds of drones and dozens of missiles. Ukraine has long been urging its Western allies to provide it with enough advanced air defence weaponry to be able to cope with almost daily Russian strikes. Kyiv has also been seeking Western missiles that could hit major Russian cities far from the front line, arguing that this would seriously weaken Russia's military industry and force Russian President Vladimir Putin to the negotiating table. Last week, US Vice-President JD Vance said publicly that Washington was considering a request by Ukraine for long-range Tomahawk missiles, which - if delivered - would put Moscow and other major Russian cities within reach for Ukraine's military. On Tuesday, European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced "we have agreed with Ukraine that a total of €2bn (£1.7bn) will be spent on drones now. "This allows Ukraine to scale up and to use its full capacity. And of course, it will also allow the European Union to benefit from this technology," she added. US President Donald Trump and Europe have been leading efforts to end the war - but Putin has repeatedly rejected calls for a ceasefire. Kyiv and its allies accuse the Russian president of stalling tactics as his troops continue making slow progress on the battlefield - despite the reporting of very high combat casualties. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At Penal Colony No. 4, there are no easy ways out. It's a medium security prison, but the thick iron gates and imposing white walls topped with barbed wire give it a more "maximum" feel. Inside are Andrii Askerov and Roman Chech: both convicted drug dealers who've managed to come up with early escape routes. They've successfully applied to join the ranks of the Ukrainian army. They will go through a month's training, and, in exchange for being released, will fight "until the war is over". "I can't imagine what it's like to kill a man, I've only seen it in movies," confesses Andrii, who is 18 months into a six-year stretch. Getting out of jail is obviously the motivation for the 30-year-old. But he also wants to return to society as a citizen who contributed, rather than a convict who took. Since the creation of a new law last year, more than 10,000 prisoners have joined the Ukrainian military, including murderers. Those convicted of the most serious crimes however, like multiple killings, sexual violence, corruption and treason, are excluded. "Everyone will end up on the front line sooner rather than later," says Roman, who is also swapping his grey prison jumpsuit for military fatigues. "I would have a lifelong label as a convict, but if I serve, I'd be a serviceman," he says with a quiet focus. For the 36-year-old, joining isn't just about rehabilitation, but revenge too. "My sister would have been 21 now," he explains. "She was killed when a Russian missile hit her house in Kharkiv in 2023." "Most of all I would like to avenge her." According to the government, most of the prisoners who have signed up have volunteered for the infantry, where they've taken part in intense fighting. They will also feed into a new assault force announced by President Volodymyr Zelensky in September. With traditional specialists like marines or paratroopers becoming increasingly redundant on the modern battlefield, this new unit will storm Russian positions with the help of drones. If these convicts are to taste freedom, they'll have to fight on some of the most dangerous parts of the front line for an indefinite period. Not all of them will make it. According to the governor of Penal Colony No. 4, half of the thousand inmates who've volunteered so far are already dead. The series of converted farm buildings in southern Ukraine make for a modest military base, but for the 30 or so injured soldiers here it is a welcome relief. They're all ex-prisoners who have returned from eastern battlefields. Oleksii, 37, was fighting in Velyka Novosilka when he sustained a serious-looking leg injury. "We were hit by artillery, mortar rounds and glide bombs," he explains. "I didn't expect so many of my comrades to be killed." Oleskii was serving an eight-year sentence for drug smuggling before volunteering to fight. As he perches on his make-shift bed, he tells me why he thinks prisoners make better soldiers than civilians who are mobilised. "Those who are conscripted, they must tear them away from their mother's breast!" he exclaims. "We know how to fight! We know how to fight very well!" A point driven home by a pile of velcro badges and passports, ripped from the arms and pockets of dead Russian soldiers, which the soldiers have brought back from the front. "I have a significant score of Russian heads, and I've helped hundreds of wounded comrades," chimes in Andrii Andriichuk. Also across his torso are the scars from 47 pieces of shrapnel, he tells us. He's previously fought in the Russian border region of Kursk as part of a Ukrainian offensive. Before that, he was a career burglar. After nearly four years of Russia's full-scale invasion, you get used to meeting troops who are exhausted from spending months or even years on the front lines, as they struggle to contain Russian advances. Not here. There is palpably high morale, driven by a deep sense of patriotism, and probable relief at getting out of their prison cells. They admit many former inmates desert once they're out of prison, but claim the majority want to play their part. "I've committed many evil deeds for this country," says Andrii. "There is a price to pay for everything. I'll just go back to the job I'm good at: fighting." "I have skills too," chuckles Oleksii. "I know how to kill. Only here I won't be convicted for it." By the admission of the soldiers who oversee the convicts, these men will need "great luck" to survive until the end of the war. Yet they seemingly wouldn't want to be anywhere else. Russia was criticised when it emptied its own prisons earlier in the war. At least 200,000 have joined its fight, on missions described as "meatgrinders". So does Ukraine's Deputy Justice Minister, Evhen Pikalov, admit the country is doing the same? "There's a huge difference: the Russians are paid per hundred metres, and Ukrainians are driven by patriotic feelings," he claims. Pikalov sees himself as a reformer within his department, and wants Ukraine to focus more on rehabilitation, instead of punishment, when it comes to criminals. "Our main goal is to resocialise, to give them a chance. It has nothing to do with the exploitation of the vulnerabilities of these people," he argues. "It's an opportunity for them to defend and protect our country, that's it." On the morality of letting murderers out after a fraction of their sentence, Pikalov stressed they weren't pardons, but conditional releases. "Of course we have an emotional component here, but always for some victim's families, even without the war, sentences are never enough." With the passing of time, motivated men are becoming harder for Ukraine to find. With peace ever-distant, its search will only go deeper. Additional reporting by Volodymyr Lozhko, Rebecca Hartmann and Anastasiia Levchenko A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US is considering a request by Ukraine for long-range Tomahawk missiles, US Vice-President JD Vance has said. However, Vance added President Donald Trump would be making "the final determination" on the matter. Kyiv has long been calling for its Western partners to provide it with weapons that could hit major Russian cities far from the front line, arguing that they would help Ukraine seriously weaken Russia's military industry and bring the war to an end. "If the cost of continuing the war for Moscow is too high, it will be forced to start peace talks," deputy defence minister Ivan Havryliuk told the BBC. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov played down Vance's suggestion, saying there was "no panacea that can change the situation on the front for the Kyiv regime." "Whether it's Tomahawks or other missiles, they won't be able to change the dynamic," he added. Tomahawk missiles have a range of 2,500 km (1,500 miles), which would put Moscow within reach for Ukraine. While Vance remained ambivalent about Ukraine's request for Tomahawks in his remarks on Sunday, the US special envoy to Ukraine, Keith Kellogg, seemed to suggest Trump had already authorised strikes deep into Russian territory. Asked on Fox News whether Washington had allowed Kyiv to carry out long-range strikes within Russia in specific instances, Kellogg said: "The answer is yes, use the ability to hit deep, there are no such things as sanctuaries." Vance and Kellogg's comments match the US administration's recent change of tone in regard to the war. After repeatedly expressing scepticism that Ukraine could continue to hold its own against Russia, last week Trump said Kyiv could "win all of Ukraine back in its original form" – a shift that reportedly even surprised Ukraine's Volodymyr Zelensky. Trump is known to have been irritated by Russian President Vladimir Putin's surface willingness to discuss ending the war versus the reality of Moscow's persistent bombardments of Ukraine's cities. On Sunday, a massive 12-hour strike involving hundreds of drones and nearly 50 missiles left four people dead in Kyiv and at least 70 injured. Ukraine's Havryliuk told the BBC Russia was only going to further increase the intensity and severity of its aerial attacks. To protect its skies from ballistic missiles, Kyiv has asked its Western partners for at least 10 units of Patriot surface-to-air defence systems which can detect and intercept oncoming missiles. Asked whether the Patriot systems Trump promised over the summer were forthcoming, Havryliuk declined to be drawn into specifics but said there was "some movement in this direction". The more drones and missiles are fired by Russia, the harder it is for Ukraine to intercept them. Earlier this month Moscow fired a record number of more than 800 drones and missiles – the highest since the start of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. Inevitably, during such large-scale attacks the interception rate drops. Out of the hundreds of drones used in Sunday's attack, 31 managed to hit their targets. According to President Zelensky, the majority were residential buildings and civilian facilities such as a cardiology centre in Kyiv. As well as being more frequent and intense, aerial attacks are also becoming more dangerous as Moscow is using new and more advanced drones to break through Ukraine's air defence systems, Havryliuk said. When Iranian-made Shahed drones were used for the first time in 2023, "they were easy to jam using our electronic warfare systems", he explained. "Today, they use 16-channel antennas in order to pass through our jamming zones." Havryliuk also believes they would be a way for Ukraine to stop Russian drones before they reach EU countries. "Strengthening our air defence system is an investment into security of the entire Europe," he said, referring to the recent incursion of Russian drones into Polish airspace. He added that it would disrupt "Putin's plans to constantly scare Europe". Earlier this year the Trump administration approved a new mechanism which sees European allies purchase US-made weapons for Ukraine. So far, several European countries and Canada have collectively pledged $2bn (£1.5bn). While some of the weapons bought under the scheme have already arrived in Ukraine, Havryliuk said, the process is slower than before. Time is a precious commodity in Ukraine, and in the last three and a half years of war Kyiv has developed a thriving defence industry, significantly increasing its production of drones, artillery shells, artillery systems and armoured vehicles. Ukraine now produces almost 100% of First Person View (FPV) drones it needs and up to 40% of the front line's demand for other weapons, Havryliuk said. On Monday Zelensky said Ukraine would continue to focus on domestically produced drones and missiles with long-range capabilities. But until it can step up production of weapons Kyiv will remain largely dependent on its allies to provide the air defence systems it needs. Ukraine is hoping that better protection of its cities with air defence systems combined with long-range weapons able to hit Russian targets will help bring Moscow to the negotiating table. "Only together with our partners can we stop the Russian terror in the sky," Havryliuk said. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A teenager who escaped the war in Ukraine and settled in Lincoln has now won his "dream" place at the University of Cambridge. Timur, 17, left the city of Odesa in March 2022, following the Russian invasion and subsequent air strikes. He joined his uncle in England and enrolled at Lincoln UTC, which specialises in science and engineering. Now, he is preparing to study maths at the prestigious Trinity College. "I can't believe it happened," he said. "When I was in Ukraine, I couldn't even imagine that I would go to UK and study at arguably the best university for maths. It's just a miracle." Timur loved maths and puzzles while growing up, but the outbreak of war meant his education was interrupted. Leaving his "beautiful" home city and friends was "quite stressful", but he continued his studies online during the long drive across Europe to the UK. "I was worried for my friends that stayed in Odesa. I kept contact and I kept asking if everything's OK," he said. Since settling into his new life in Lincoln, he has thrown himself into maths even more, though he said one of the biggest challenges was understanding the "informal" English of his fellow students. He joined Lincoln UTC a year ahead of his age group and completed his GCSEs, before going on to study A-levels at Cambridge Maths School, which he hoped  would be a stepping stone to Trinity College. In his spare time he created a website of maths problems to tackle for fun. He will start at university in October. "I feel very excited to study maths in such a prestigious university," Timur added. His mother Olha said it was "unbelievable" that her son would be studying at "one of the best universities in the world". "I'm proud of him and I always believe and support him." Listen to highlights from Lincolnshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. We look at some of the highlights that can be found on the trail as it weaves through Lincolnshire. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia's foreign minister has said his country had no intention of attacking EU or Nato member states - but warned of a "decisive response" to any "aggression" directed towards Moscow. In a wide-ranging speech delivered at the UN General Assembly on Saturday, Sergei Lavrov said threats against Russia by Western countries were becoming "increasingly common". He also took aim at Israel, saying that while Russia condemned the 7 October 2023 attacks by Hamas, there was "no justification" for the "brutal killings" of Palestinians in Gaza, or for plans to annex the West Bank. Israel has previously said its Gaza operation was necessary to defeat Hamas. At least 65,926 people have been killed by Israeli strikes, according to the Hamas-run health ministry, while about 1,200 people were killed and 251 others were taken hostage in the 7 October attacks. He decried Israeli aggression towards other countries in the Middle East, which he said threatened to "blow up" the region. Israel has used its mission to eliminate Hamas  to justify air strikes on other Middle Eastern countries, including Qatar. On Iran, Lavrov accused Western powers of sabotaging diplomacy after a last-minute bid led by Russia and China to delay sanctions being reimposed failed on Friday. The Russian foreign minister said the move was "illegal". The sanctions came into force at 00:00 GMT on Sunday. Regarding tensions in Europe, Lavrov said: "Threats of force against Russia, accused of practically planning an attack on the North Atlantic Alliance [Nato] and the European Union, are becoming increasingly common. President [Vladimir] Putin has repeatedly debunked such provocations. "Russia has never had and does not have such intentions, but any aggression against my country will be met with a decisive response." Moscow has denied responsibility after Denmark said drones were flown over its airports in a co-ordinated incursion into its airspace. Denmark said the incidents appeared to be the work of a "professional actor" but that there was no evidence of Russian involvement. Earlier, Estonia accused Russia of violating its airspace with warplanes, while a Nato air defence mission was recently carried out over Poland as part of an allied response to Russian drone incursions into Polish airspace. As a backdrop to all this, Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine continues in its third year, with Moscow launching one of the largest overnight drone attacks on Saturday. Donald Trump has gone as far as to say that Nato nations should shoot down Russian planes in their airspace, while the alliance itself has warned it would use "all necessary military and non-military tools" to defend itself following the recent incursions. Trump has also appeared to shift his position on Russia's war with Ukraine, saying this week that Kyiv could "win all of Ukraine back in its original form". Lavrov addressed the US-Russian relationship in his speech on Saturday, saying: "In the approaches of the current US administration, we see a desire not only to contribute to ways to realistically resolve the Ukrainian crisis, but also a desire to develop pragmatic cooperation without adopting an ideological stance." In a further criticism of the West, Lavrov questioned the timing of recent recognition by some countries, including the UK and France, of a Palestinian state - saying that it seemed they had waited so long because they hoped "there would be no one and nothing left to recognise". A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The crowd filing through central Chisinau waving EU flags on Friday evening was clear: they believe Russia is trying to steal their election and bring pro-Kremlin politicians to power in Moldova. "Their weapon is money, your weapon is your vote!", was the loudest chant as several hundred supporters of the governing party, PAS, and its pro-European policies joined the final rally before Sunday's ballot. This week Moldovan police and prosecutors disclosed evidence of election interference on an unprecedented scale: vote-buying and disinformation that they link directly to Russia. They've also uncovered a plot to foment violent unrest, detaining dozens of men who travelled to Serbia for training including in the use of firearms. Opposition parties dismiss talk of Russian meddling as a "political show" claiming the government is laying the ground to annul the vote should PAS lose its majority in parliament. But Moldova took a decisive turn towards EU membership and away from Moscow after Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Now the evidence suggests Russia has been investing heavily in restoring its influence. It's trying to claw back control. Lodged between Romania and Ukraine, Moldova has been independent since the USSR fell apart more than three decades ago. Last summer, it launched EU accession talks in tandem with Ukraine. Prime Minister Dorin Recean sees these elections as a "final battle" for his country. "There is constant pressure from Russia," he told me, as the pro-PAS crowd broke up after its brief march through Chisinau. "They're spending the equivalent of more than 1% of our GDP to overthrow our government - on propaganda and false messages." Some of that fake-news network – posting anti PAS content for cash – was uncovered in a recent BBC investigation. It's linked to Ilan Sor, a fugitive Moldovan oligarch now in Moscow. In response to the BBC investigation, the Russian embassy in the UK denied involvement in fake news and electoral interference and claimed that it was the EU that had been interfering in Moldova's election. All this is happening as Russia's bombardment of Ukraine escalates and with Moscow accused of ever more hostile activity elsewhere in Europe, like sending drones into Poland. So PAS is trying to mobilise voters by driving home the danger. Its bright yellow election flyers are full of promises that the party guarantees EU membership "in the next four years" along with a bounty of European investment and maximum respect in the world. But the flip side of the paper is dark and disturbing. There's an image of Ukrainian homes destroyed by war and a warning not to "hand our country over to Russia". Then come the faces of Moldova's opposition leaders and the slogan: "Say no to Putin's candidates." "This is exactly the risk right now here in Moldova," the prime minister says, justifying using such scare tactics. Beyond the shabby Soviet-era blocks of Chisinau city suburbs, a short drive leads to field upon field lined with grape vines. It's like a mini Tuscany with a lot more potholes. In Cricova, with the sun beginning to slide, women chat on benches on the main square as their children scramble over a climbing frame. Moldova isn't rich, even in wine-producing spots like this, and huge numbers have left the country to seek better lives and incomes overseas. That's created a diaspora so large, its vote has become decisive. Since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022, the surge in energy prices has strained the economy even further – to near zero growth. "The politicians have fancy paper to print their election posters and flyers, but there's nothing decent for our kids' schoolbooks," one of the mums grumbles, displaying a photo on her phone of school books, tattered and torn. Another says her salary on a factory production line is stuck at around £100 a month but the cost of living has soared. "I don't know who to vote for, they all make promises," she shrugs. "Then they do nothing." Beyond PAS, the choice on Sunday includes the Patriotic Bloc made up primarily of the Socialist and Communist parties. A key member, Irina Vlah, was barred from running on Friday because of allegations of illicit financing. Another bloc, Alternativa, posits itself as pro-EU but its candidates include the Chisinau mayor who is banned from travel in Europe's Schengen zone for unspecified security reasons. He's appealing the ruling. In all, there are more than 20 participants, although there's a minimal threshold to enter parliament. Tamara, who's in her 60s, tells me her own vote won't be decided by a lack of schoolbooks or even salaries. "We chose the path to the EU, and I want to continue on that path, like everyone else," she says. "I wouldn't want to go backwards. That's scary! I've already been there." Igor Dodon isn't scared by restoring relations with Russia. It's something he actively seeks. Even as Moscow wages war on Moldova's neighbour, Ukraine, the former president has three pictures of Russian leader Vladimir Putin among the gallery of photos on his office wall. He points to other pictures, including old shots with US president Donald Trump and French President Emmanuel Macron, as evidence of his "balanced" politics. But Putin and his allies dominate the display. Dodon is one of the main opposition candidates on Sunday, for the Socialist Party, and shrugs off talk of Russian interference. In July he travelled to Moscow for meetings and says if he wins this election, he'll oppose all sanctions on Russia "even if Brussels dictates it". He'd also revert to buying gas from Russia to cut costs. Why not, he wants to know, if EU members Slovakia and Hungary can do it? Dodon calls his approach pro-Moldovan, not pro-Russian, driven by profit margins not morals. When pushed, he says the war in Ukraine was the fault of "both sides". "We need to have good relations with all. It means we shouldn't be friends with someone against another," he argues. But he's not at all friendly with President Maia Sandu, who founded PAS, or with her allies. "If PAS say they've won on Sunday, we will show it's a fix. They can only get a majority by falsification," Dodon declares, promising a wave of street protests if that happens. "We will declare a win and defend it," he says. "We won't let them cancel the vote." The only documented efforts to warp Moldova's elections so far have been by Russia. "This is one of the most advanced interference campaigns we've seen," Police Chief Viorel Cernăuțeanu says bluntly. At last year's presidential elections he says people were being paid up to $40 to vote for pro-Russian forces who then came close to winning. "We calculate that Russia invested more than $100 million overall last year," the police chief tells me. "Now it's more than three times that amount." The process is more sophisticated too, using crypto currency instead of bags full of cash. "For the Russian side, Moldova is seen as a territory where they should rightfully exercise influence…within the borders of the old empire," explains John Lough, head of foreign policy at the New Eurasian Strategies Centre (NEST), a London-based think-tank. "With very traditional, imperial thinking…they see it as their right to boss Moldova around. "If they can bring to power a government that is friendly to them then that would be demoralising for the Europeans," he adds. There's also the chance of a firm toehold inside Europe for more hybrid activity and the potential offered by the breakaway Transnistria region that borders Ukraine. Propped up by Moscow it's still home to a Soviet-era ammunitions store and a contingent of Russian troops. A Russia-leaning government "could make things more difficult for the Ukrainians" because of Transnistria, Lough points out. Moscow has denied the allegations and accused Moldovan authorities of spreading anti-Russian rhetoric. "The authorities are so afraid of the elections that they are hampering the nomination of candidates, participation in the vote, and observation of the vote," Russia's Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said in a statement this week. For police chief Cernăuțeanu, it's the plot for violent unrest that's most serious. More than 100 people – mainly "athletic" men, he tells me – were detained for attending training in Serbia, including on breaking through police lines and seizing weapons. Two were linked to the political structure of Dodon. The former president says the party is still checking its records. On Friday, Serbian police announced the arrest of two men suspected of organising the training for up to 170 others. Moldova believes Russia's GRU military intelligence was involved. "I don't think anyone in Europe has experienced anything like this interference," Mr Cernăuțeanu says. "Ahead of the vote we're working 247 to minimise the risks. But we understand very well that Russia will try absolutely all methods to achieve what it wants." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Ukrainian soldier who was held captive for a year and tortured has taken part in a leadership programme to help gain skills to aid her country's post-war recovery. Maria Chekh was one of 16 soldiers and veterans who swapped the front line for the classroom for the course at Warwick Business School earlier in September. She survived one of the fiercest battles in her home city of Mariupol in 2022, and said she hoped she could inspire and give hope to others. The week-long programme was in collaboration with Ukrainian civil society organisation CHESNO. Maria was among the Ukrainian troops who held out for three months in the Azovstal steelworks three years ago. Most of her comrades were killed. She said: "Two females soldiers, my sisters in arms, died and I don't know how I survived because I was actually closer to the explosion than they were, but in war sometimes strange things happen." After they surrendered, Maria became a prisoner of war and told how she was humiliated and made to stand from 06:00 to 22:00 whilst held captive. At times there was a lack of food and water, she added. Although she was injured in the conflict against Russia and suffered brain and knee trauma, Maria still serves with her military unit but not on the front line. Now she co-ordinates the rehabilitation for wounded veterans and their families and said she wanted to expand the support to them, and hoped the leadership training will help achieve that. Danylo Shyngelskyi, who also took part in the programme, served his country for two-and-a-half years before being medically discharged. He was shot in the shoulder and suffers from nerve damage in his hand. The 22 year-old is now pursuing a degree in political science and said he joined the programme so he could continue to help serve his country by improving his leadership skills. He said: "The best future for Ukraine is a future with Europe, so we must develop this connection with Europe." Danylo added he wanted to continue to help the military and said "education can help me do this work better". The programme has been well received by both students and academics, Dr Bo Kelestyn, of  Warwick Business school, said. It added it hoped they can welcome more Ukrainian soldiers and veterans in the future. Two people are arrested after the body of a man in his 50s was found in a road. Take a look at these delightful photos of the West Midlands we have been sent this week. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. It will support initiatives that improve quality of life and enhance local communities. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has urged Turkey to stop buying oil from Russia, part of a wider drive to cut off Moscow's energy funding as the war in Ukraine rages on. Speaking alongside Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan at the White House, Trump said halting those imports would be "the best thing" his Turkish counterpart could do. The Oval Office meeting ended without any firm commitments to lift US sanctions on Turkey or to sell advanced F-35 fighter jets, though Trump expressed optimism on both issues. Turkey has for years been prevented from buying US F-35s. In 2019, it was expelled from a programme where it produced parts for the warplane after it acquired air defence systems from Russia. During a brief question-and-answer session alongside Erdogan in the Oval Office on Thursday, Trump said he would like Turkey to stop "buying any oil from Russia while Russia continues its rampage against Ukraine". "The best thing he could do is not buy oil and gas from Russia," Trump said. "If he did that, that would be the best thing." Trump added that he believes Erdogan is respected both by Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelensky and Russian President Vladimir Putin, meaning that he could "have a big influence" on the war "if he wants to". Alongside India and China, Turkey is among Moscow's biggest customers for oil and gas exports, and data shows that the volume of Russian gas that reached Europe through Turkey rose by more than 26% earlier this year. The US president's comments come just weeks after he said he stood poised to impose tougher sanctions on Russia if Nato countries met conditions that included halting imports of Russian oil. Earlier this week - during a lengthy speech at the UN General Assembly - Trump also accused Nato allies of "funding the war against themselves" through their purchases of energy from Moscow. During Trump's first term in office, the US removed Turkey from the F-35 programme after it purchased S-400 surface-to-air missile systems from Russia. A US defence bill passed in 2020 included an amendment that prevented Turkey from acquiring F-35s, unless - and only if - the US government was able to certify that it had given up on the Russian S-400. Some US lawmakers have expressed concerns about the potential sale over Turkish military incursions into Syria and past violations of Greek airspace. Earlier this week, the bipartisan Hellenic Caucus in the US Congress warned against allowing Turkey to buy F-35s, citing its military co-operation with Russia and a "disregard for international norms and democratic principles". In the Oval Office, however, Trump told Erdogan that he would "be successful" with buying the things he would "like to buy". "He needs certain things, and we need certain things," he said. "And we're going to come to a conclusion. You'll know by the end of the day." Erdogan said of the F-35 ban in an interview with Fox News on Monday: "I don't think it is very becoming of a strategic partnership." Trump also said that sanctions against Turkey - implemented in 2020 following the S-400 purchase - could be lifted "very soon". "If we have a good meeting, almost immediately," he added. The meeting between Trump and Erdogan is their second this week, following a brief discussion they had about Gaza at the UN General Assembly, alongside leaders from several Arab and Muslim nations. In his interview with Fox, Erdogan also accused US ally Israel of committing a "complete genocide" in Gaza and blamed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu - a position starkly different from Trump's. In the Oval Office on Thursday, however, the US and Turkish presidents avoided public disagreement on the issue. Israel denies it is committing genocide in Gaza. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Vladimir Putin "will keep driving the war forward wider and deeper" if he is not stopped, Ukraine's President Zelensky has warned. Speaking at the UN's General Assembly in New York, Zelensky said more countries would be met with Russian aggression unless allies displayed a united front and ramped up support. He said all nations were threatened by a global arms race, as military technology advances, adding that "weapons decide who survives" and calling for global rules on AI. His comments come after US President Donald Trump shifted his position on the Russia-Ukraine war, saying for the first time that Ukraine could win back all of its land. Zelensky criticised international institutions, suggesting they are "too weak" to offer Ukraine safety guarantees, adding - in apparent reference to Nato - that being part of a long-standing military alliance "doesn't automatically mean you are safe". "We are now living through the most destructive arms race in human history," he said. He argued that "stopping Russia now" was cheaper than "wondering who will be the first to create a simple drone carrying a nuclear warhead". Zelensky called for international rules around AI and its role in weaponry, and said the development of autonomous drones and unmanned planes represented a far greater risk than traditional warfare. The Ukrainian leader also warned that Europe cannot afford to lose Moldova - which lies between Ukraine and EU-member Romania - to Russian influence. He said the West had missed a chance to save Georgia and Belarus from Putin's orbit. On Thursday the pro-EU president of Moldova, Maia Sandu, accused the Kremlin of "pouring hundreds of millions of euros" into Moldova in an attempt to instigate violence and spread fear. Voters in the former Soviet republic go to the polls on Sunday, amid what a BBC investigation found to be a barrage of disinformation spread by a network with ties to Moscow. Last week, Estonia and Poland requested a consultation with other Nato members after Russia violated its airspace in separate incidents. Romania, another Nato member, also said Russian drones breached its airspace. Earlier on Tuesday, following his speech to the UN, Trump said Nato nations should shoot down Russian planes breaching their airspace, following the recent incursions by Russian fighter jets and drones. Zelensky praised Donald Trump and said he had a "good meeting" with the US president. On Tuesday, he told reporters he understood the US was willing to give Ukraine security guarantees after the war is finished. Pressed on what this would look like, he said he did not have specific details but broached the possibility of more weapons, air defences and drones. Trump's suggestion on Tuesday that Kyiv could win, with support from the EU and Nato, marked an apparent U-turn after his previous comments that Ukraine would have to accept "land swaps" as a condition of peace. The US president also described Russia as a "paper tiger" that had been "fighting aimlessly in Ukraine." Kremlin spokesman Dimitry Peskov responded: "Russia is in no way a tiger. It's more associated with a bear. And there is no such thing as a paper bear." Peskov told reporters the US president had made the comments "apparently under the influence of the vision put forward by Zelensky". "This vision is in absolute contrast with our understanding of the current state of affairs." US Secretary of State Marco Rubio held a meeting with his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov on Wednesday, marking the highest-level US encounter with Russia since Trump invited Putin to Alaska last month. According to a brief statement from the US State Department, Rubio reiterated Trump's "call for the killing to stop and the need for Moscow to take meaningful steps toward a durable resolution of the Russia-Ukraine war". The Kremlin did not immediately comment on the meeting. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. The PSNI has previously issued an apology to Darragh Mackin and Peter Corrigan after their phone data was accessed. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has said Kyiv can "win all of Ukraine back in its original form", marking a major shift in his position on the war with Russia. In a post on his Truth Social platform, he said Ukraine could get back "the original borders from where this war started" with the support of Europe and Nato, due to pressures on Russia's economy. His comments came after talks with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, held after Trump had addressed the UN General Assembly in New York on Tuesday. Trump has repeatedly expressed his desire to end the war, but has previously warned that process would likely involve Ukraine giving up some territory, an outcome Zelensky has consistently rejected. In his post, Trump added Ukraine could "maybe even go further than that", but did not specify what he was referring to. He also made no reference to Crimea, which was invaded and annexed by Russia in 2014. Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, suggested the reason for Trump's change of tone was that he had just talked to the Ukrainian president. The US president, he told reporters, had made the comments "apparently under the influence of the vision put forward by Zelensky... this vision is in absolute contrast with our understanding of the current state of affairs". "The thesis that Ukraine can fight something back, we believe it erroneous. The situation on the front line speaks for itself." Trump explained that his position had changed "after getting to know and fully understand the UkraineRussia military and economic situation". "Putin and Russia are in BIG Economic trouble, and this is the time for Ukraine to act," he added, labelling Russia as a "paper tiger". The Kremlin spokesman responded by insisting "Russia is in no way a tiger". "It's more associated with a bear and there is no such thing as a paper bear," he told Russia's RBK Radio. He also denied Russia was in economic trouble, but conceded  there were "points of tension" in some sectors linked to global sanctions on Russia. Zelensky hailed the "big shift" in Trump's position, and speaking to reporters in the UN building, said he understood the US was willing to give Ukraine security guarantees "after the war is finished". Pressed on what this would look like, he added: "I don't want to lie, we don't have specific details," but broached the possibility of more weapons, air defences and drones. Speaking later on Fox News, Zelensky said that Trump's Truth Social post about Ukraine's positioning surprised him but he took it as a "positive signal" that Trump and the US "will be with us to the end of the war". "I think the fact that Putin was lying to President Trump so many times also made a difference between us," he told Fox host Bret Baier. Earlier on Tuesday, following his speech to the UN, Trump also said Nato nations should shoot down Russian planes breaching their airspace, following a series of recent incursions by Russian fighter jets and drones. Poland's foreign minister, Radoslaw Sikorski, responded on social media with a brief message of approval: "Roger that." Last week, Estonia and Poland requested a consultation with other Nato members after Russia violated its airspace in separate incidents. Romania, another Nato member, also said Russian drones breached its airspace. After meeting on Tuesday, Nato issued a statement condemning Russia's actions and warned that it would use "all necessary military and non-military tools" to defend itself. "Russia bears full responsibility for these actions, which are escalatory, risk miscalculation and endanger lives. They must stop," it said. The alliance added that Moscow's actions were part of a "pattern of increasingly irresponsible" behaviour. Nato's secretary general Mark Rutte said: "We are a defensive alliance, yes, but we are not naive, so we see what is happening." Speaking at the UN, Poland's president Karol Nawrocki echoed those comments, saying his country was prepared to "defend its territory" and "react adequately". "Polish people, as well as countries of Central and Eastern Europe, will not be scared of Russian drones," he said. Russia denied violating Estonia's airspace, while it insisted the Polish incursion was not deliberate and did not comment on the Romania incident. Asked if the US would support its Nato allies if they shot down Russian aircraft, Trump said it "depends on the circumstance" and praised the military alliance for increasing defence spending. "Nato has stepped up," he said, referring to an agreement by leaders to ramp up defence spending to 5% of their countries' economic output by 2035. In his speech hours earlier, Trump criticised some Nato members for not ceasing the purchase of Russian energy, saying they were "funding a war against themselves". Trump also met European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen at the UN on Tuesday, and she made clear that the European Union was tightening the pressure on Russian oil and gas exports. "By 2027, Europe will have turned the page on Russian fossil fuels for good," she posted on X. Tuesday's Truth Social post represents an about-face after Trump spent most of the year insisting that Ukraine's situation was dire. In February, Trump told Zelensky during their fiery Oval Office exchange that he did "not have the cards right now" to prevail against a larger, more populous nation in a war of attrition. Before talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Alaska in August, Trump said he would try to get some territory back for Ukraine but warned there would be "some swapping, changes in land". There were reports he was planning to press Zelensky to surrender the entirety of the eastern Ukrainian regions of Donetsk and Luhansk in return for Russia freezing the rest of the front line - a proposal put forward by Putin in Alaska. Trump has also repeatedly threatened to impose tougher measures on Russia, but has so far failed to take any action when the Kremlin ignored his deadlines and threats of sanctions. Unpredictability has long been one of the US president's foreign policy trademarks, and perhaps this latest move is an attempt to shake up peace negotiations that have been stagnant for more than a month after Trump hosted Russian President Vladimir Putin at a summit in Alaska. The most notable portion of Trump's post may be the way it ended - with an assurance the US would continue to sell arms to Nato that it could then pass along to Ukraine. It is not the seemingly near open-ended commitment to the war effort that the Biden administration provided, but it is more than Trump seemed interested in offering at times this year. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Many Ukrainians living in the UK are facing having to apply for extensions to their visas, with little prospect of being able to return home soon. Thousands of displaced refugees have now been in the West Midlands for three years, and some have been fundraising to help the war effort back home. Many have been trying to adapt to life in a different country while being separated from loved ones. Among them are sisters Yevheniia and Maria Shepilova from Kherson, who initially moved in with a host family in Gnosall, Staffordshire. Their parents are still in Ukraine, but it is too unsafe for them to return and they are applying for visa extensions. "They soon settled in and they were just so lovely, it was just great to see that we're able to help them," said host Peter Thompson. They are now in their own home, with part time jobs and a hobby - designing and writing comics. "We got a new life here, and we are trying to build our lives because we are just in the stage that we have to do something with our lives – and we really do feel alive again," Yevheniia said. Maria added: "It really moves me that there are some people in another part of the world who didn't know us who actually gave us this support and this hope." Ira Shchetynina is also among the hundreds of Ukrainians still living in Staffordshire. She had to escape her home town of Zaporizhzhia when Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine began. She now lives in Lichfield with her parents and seven-year-old son, but believes the ordeal has worsened her health. "The war started, a lot of stress, moving places, and I started dialysis. It got worse because of the war, because of the stress," she said. "As a mother I would be happy for [my son] to stay here and build his life here in Great Britain and I will support him however I can." Ms Shchetynina and her friend Olga Soloviova have raised thousands of pounds by organising charity events. On a recent visit to Dnipro, Ms Soloviova saw how money was being spent to help displaced people and pay for drones. "It works that we can defend our cities," she said. "It would be very scary if Trump, or some politician, just forces us to give away some territory." Follow BBC Stoke & Staffordshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. The district council says the car was seized after environment officers reviewed CCTV footage. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Use our interactive tracker to explore the latest migration statistics for the UK The new pet crematorium will be at Britannia Enterprise Park, Lichfield, if plans are approved. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
With tears in his eyes, a young Kenyan athlete now captive in Ukraine pleads not to be sent back to Russia. "I will die there," Evans Kibet says, waving his hands in the air towards the unseen interviewer on the video released on Wednesday by a Ukrainian army brigade. The 36-year-old prisoner-of-war is wearing a red sports top. The brigade's flag is pinned up behind him. The aspiring long-distance runner says he was tricked into joining the Russian army and is desperate to go home to see his 16-year-old daughter. In a Facebook post accompanying the video, the 57th Separate Motorised Infantry Brigade said it was an example of how Russia treats foreign recruits but added that he had "fought on the side of the enemy, so whether to believe the words and tears is up to your discretion". The brigade said the interview was filmed with Kibet's consent, but the BBC has not verified this. Though recruits from abroad in the Russian army are not unheard of, this is a rare case of a captive foreigner speaking on video. Citizens of Somalia, Sierra Leone, Togo, Cuba and Sri Lanka , among others, are currently held in Ukrainian prisoner-of-war camps, Petro Yatsenko, Ukraine's spokesperson on the treatment of prisoners of war, told the BBC. "Most of these individuals come from poorer countries and end up on the Russian side in different ways. Some are deceived – promised jobs at factories – while others join the war voluntarily. It is important to understand that very few are captured alive; most are either killed or seriously injured," he added. Back in Kenya, Kibet's family and friends are in shock over what they have seen. After a heavy sigh and a long pause, his cousin Edith Chesoi told the BBC that she had been replaying the video over and over in her head. "I am so traumatised. I didn't sleep at night. I don't even know what to say." Kibet's younger brother, Isaac Kipyego, described him as "humble guy and a man with a few words" as well as a pillar and advisor to the rest of the family. They know him as someone dedicated to his sport. "I love running, I love running," Kibet says on the Ukrainian video. And it was this that may have led him to becoming an unwitting Russian recruit. Kibet had built his life around athletics, a sport that has lifted many Kenyans like him from villages to global recognition. He grew up in a farming family from the Mount Elgon area in western Kenya. Kibet trained in Iten, the high-altitude town famed for producing Olympians and world champions, but in a competitive field he never reached that status. Instead, he competed in lesser-known 10km and half-marathon road races in Europe and Asia, according to family and friends. "Kibet has been running since he was a child," his younger brother said. "He's always been talented. Running was his life." But while the sport defined his identity, it had not delivered the financial breakthrough he longed for. Friends say Kibet had been struggling financially. In March, he asked a training partner, Elias Kiptum, to help him race in Poland, but the team that was going was already full. "I guess that's how he ended up in Russia," Kiptum told the BBC. When, later in the year, a sports agent offered him a trip to Russia to take part in races, Kibet seized the opportunity. The BBC's calls to the agent to confirm this have not been picked up. "He was very excited when he told me he was going to race in Russia," Kibet's brother said. "Even I was happy for him. We had high expectations." His cousin, Ms Chesoi, who escorted him to the bus park on the first leg of the journey at the end of July, said he carried just "a small-sized suitcase". Kibet told his family he would only be gone for two weeks. On the video filmed in Ukraine, Kibet says that he went to Russia as a visitor and not for a "military job". Then, after a fortnight, his host asked him if he would like to stay longer. "I said: 'Yes, but the problem is that my visa is expired'. He said: 'No, I can do something for you.'" And then he promised Kibet a job. "In the evening, he came with some papers written in Russian. He told me: 'This is the job I want you to do.' "I didn't know it was a military job." Kibet says he then signed the papers and the man took his phone and passport. "And that is how everything went wrong... that signing ruined my life." According to Kibet, some other people turned up and told him to get in a car. They then drove for around seven hours. "I found myself in a military camp." Kibet says he was informed that he had signed up to be in the army and that he had no choice. "I was told: 'Either you go to fight or we'll kill you.'" He says a week of basic training followed, during which he was shown how to handle an automatic rifle. None of his commanders spoke English, so instructions came through shoves and gestures. Kibet insists he never engaged in combat and then on the way to what would have been his first mission, he ditched his equipment and escaped, wandering for two days through a forest near Vovchansk in Ukraine's north-eastern Kharkiv region. He then approached some Ukrainian soldiers. "I went there with my hands up," he says repeating the gesture for the camera. "I said: 'I am a Kenyan, please don't shoot me.' "Everyone pointed their guns at me, but I told them to calm down. The commander came, they tied me. I told them: 'No, I am unarmed, I don't want anything. I'm here to save my life." Despite Kibet's family being in shock over the video, there is some relief that he is in the hands of the Ukrainians. "We feel that he's a bit safe [with them] rather than being in Russia," his brother Mr Kipyego said. The family is asking the Kenyan authorities to intervene. A senior foreign ministry official said the government was following up reports of several Kenyan nationals who had allegedly been trafficked to Russia and were now being held as prisoners of war in Ukraine. "In the meantime, we assure the families that our Mission in Moscow and our teams at HQ are pursuing the matter with all diligence," Korir Sing'oei wrote on X. "If the government of his country of origin expresses interest in his repatriation, Ukraine is open to negotiations about transferring him home," Ukrainian spokesperson Mr Yatsenko said. However, speaking about other prisoners-of-war, he added that "most African states show little interest in the return of such citizens and do not wish to take them back". For Kibet's loved ones, their only priority is his safety. "If he made a mistake, let them forgive him. We only want him back," his brother said. Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Cameroon's President Paul Biya, 93, won his eighth successive term last year in a disputed election. The fuel cost is nearly double what the government budgeted for putting pressure on stretched finances. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. People evicted to build Nigeria's capital accuse the government of failing to fulfill its promises to them. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
With conflict continuing in Ukraine and the Middle East, a little-explored global industry has never been more in demand – the war risk insurance market. When a Russian missile damaged Natalia Grishko's apartment in a tower block on the outskirts of Kyiv last November she thankfully was not injured. Mrs Grishko's daughter, Alina Kalcheva, says the missile fell about 100m (328ft) from the building. "The blast wave damaged my mother's balcony, windows, doors, and the interior of the apartment." While her mum was "of course very upset and cried" to begin with, Mrs Kalcheva says she ultimately felt calm because they had insured the flat against such an attack. For while general household insurance doesn't cover conflict damage – whether you live in Ukraine or a country not under attack - Mrs Kalcheva had had the foresight to take out specialist war risk insurance cover for her mother. And the insurer paid out $1,000 (£740) to help cover the repairs. The annual premium or cost was $52, and the 33-year-old says she "didn't hesitate to buy it. And as it turned out it was obviously the right decision." Fellow Ukrainian Ekaterina Vasylieva even took out a war risk policy for her car in April 2024. That was particularly timely, because only a day later her vehicle was damaged by Russian shrapnel when it was parked in a street in the coastal city of Odesa. "Only the day before I extended the comprehensive insurance on the car, and the manager offered for me to get insurance against military risks," she says. "The cover saved me a lot because after the Russian attack the car looked like a sieve." War risk insurance is the general term for a sector that also offers cover against terrorism. Industry experts say it has grown exponentially since the September 11 attacks in the US back in 2001. And while individuals can take out war risk cover, the vast majority of policies are bought by companies who wish to insure their operations, facilities and staff around the world. Especially in high-risk countries and regions. Although data is hard to come by for an industry that doesn't seek the limelight, one trade publication this year estimated that the global amount spent on taking out war risk insurance now totals about $1bn (£800m) per annum. And £621m, or nearly 80%, of that figure is said to go to specialist insurers in the City of London, which is the centre of the international war risk insurance market. Joanna Cousins heads a nine-person political violence and war team at one such London-based insurer – Westfield Specialty. She cites the example of a large energy facility in Iraq, owned by a Western company, which has been attacked multiple times in recent years. Mrs Cousins says that the owner ultimately bought more than £100m of war risk cover, without which it would have "ceased or greatly reduced" the operation of the site. People in the war risk market are not normally very keen to talk about how much a policy costs. But for a British or American company operating in Lebanon or Israel, "currently, premiums are priced between 0.5% and 2% of the total cover they buy," says a senior London war risk insurance underwriter who asked not to be named. An underwriter is a finance professional who determines the level of risk of an insurance application, and then calculates what the cost of the cover will be. The 0.5% to 2% range means that if a business wants £100m of annual cover it has to pay between £500,000 and £2m. However, these rates will "fluctuate significantly as the situation in different countries in the Middle East is volatile", adds the unnamed underwriter. Premiums in stable Gulf states are said to be much lower, from 0.025% to 0.05% of the total amount covered. What is actually covered by a policy can vary. For example, a company can get cover for kidnappings and ransoms, treating serious injuries, or the cost of dealing with an "active assailant" situation. "The market is growing in capacity and demand, " says Daniel Hiller, underwriter, and group head of terrorism and political violence at insurer Munich Re Specialty. "There are more perils customers can buy coverage for, especially around the active shooter product, but also strikes and riots." War risk cover is organised in seven "buckets" spanning different severities of conflict. Sabotage and terrorism are considered to be the lowest, while civil and interstate war are the highest. "Many insurers try to offer all this coverage, since often it's not clear where a situation has moved from risk of terrorism, to civil war, to even interstate war," says Raveem Ismail, founder of specialist insurance firm London-based Trigger Parametric. The war risk sector is centred on London due to the continuing strength of Lloyds of London, which has been a specialist insurance market since 1689. Lloyds is also home to war risk insurance reinsurers – firms who buy and sell the cover. Ms Cousins says this spreads out the possible exposure. "Each [reinsurer] covers a certain percentage of the risk, of anywhere between one and 10%," she says. Constantin Gurdgiev, a finance professor at the University of Northern Colorado, and an expert in the study of risk and conflict finance, says the challenge for the war risk sector is to work out what premium to charge for cover. "Wars and conflicts more generally represent black swan [very rare] events," he says. Because of this rarity, he adds that "historical data tends to be a weak basis for establishing any priceable insights". Yet Mr Ismail points out that war risk insurance can be very profitable, something he contrasts with the car insurance sector. "As a car insurer, for every £1 of premiums you take in, you pay back almost £1.05 in claims," he says. You might think that the maths doesn't add up there, but Dr Ismail says that the car insurers make the 5p and more from investment income. By contrast, war risk insurance funds can pay out as little as 2%. Put simply, car crashes remain far more common than war damage. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
British fighter jets have conducted a Nato air defence mission over Poland as part of an allied response to Russian drone incursions into Polish airspace, the Ministry of Defence said. The RAF Typhoon jets were deployed over Poland on Friday night as part of the military alliance's mission to bolster its eastern flank. Tensions have escalated following repeated Russian violations of Nato members' airspace this month - with a drone detected over Romania and then warplanes in Estonia's airspace following the incursions into Poland. Russia has denied or downplayed the violations. Defence Secretary John Healey said the RAF flights sent "a clear signal: Nato airspace will be defended". He added: "I'm proud of the outstanding British pilots and air crew who took part in this successful operation to defend our allies from reckless Russian aggression." Two fighter jets took off from RAF Coningsby in Lincolnshire on Friday night to patrol Poland's skies, supported by an RAF Voyager air-to-air refuelling aircraft, before returning to the UK early on Saturday, the MoD said. Nato had announced the mission, dubbed the Eastern Sentry, on 10 September following 19 drone incursions into Polish airspace. Healey confirmed that the UK would be involved when he visited RAF Brize Norton five days later. Describing Russia's actions as "reckless, dangerous and unprecedented," he said: "When we are threatened, we respond together." Moscow maintains that it has "no plans to target" facilities in Poland. Drones and missiles have sporadically veered into countries bordering Ukraine in the years since Russia's full-scale invasion in 2022. But the arrival of 19 drones into Poland on a single day was the most serious incident of its kind and the first time a Nato member has directly engaged Russian drones since the war began, with Poland shooting down three of them. Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said it was "the closest we have been to open conflict since World War Two". Romania was the second Nato country to report a Russian drone had breached its airspace on 14 September. Then on Friday, Estonia requested an urgent consultation with other Nato members after three Russian warplanes entered its airspace "without permission and remained there for a total of 12 minutes". Russia has denied violating Estonia's airspace. Nato's Article 4, first triggered by Poland after Russia's drone incursion, allows member countries to bring any issues of concern to the North Atlantic Council, the alliance's main political decision-making body. The RAF operation comes 85 years after the Battle of Britain, when Polish pilots fought alongside the RAF to thwart sustained German air attacks in Britain's skies during World War Two. "It is especially poignant that RAF pilots and crew are once again standing shoulder to shoulder with Poland in defence of our shared security," Healey said. Air Marshal Harv Smyth, chief of the Air Staff, said the UK's "partnership with Nato has never been stronger". "We remain agile, integrated, and ready to project airpower at range." The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least three people have been killed and more than 30 injured in a "massive" overnight Russian aerial attack on Ukraine, President Volodymyr Zelensky says. He says regions across the country were targeted as part of a "deliberate strategy" to "intimidate civilians and destroy our infrastructure", with one direct missile hit reported on a residential building. Ukraine's air force says Moscow launched 619 drones and missiles. Russia's defence ministry says its "massive strike" used "precision weapons" and targeted military-industrial facilities. Separately, Russia says four people were killed in a Ukrainian drone attack on the Samara region. Kyiv says it hit a major oil refinery there. Ukraine also says another Russian oil refinery was damaged in the neighbouring Saratov region. Russian President Vladimir Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. In a post on social media, President Zelensky said Ukraine's Dnipropetrovsk, Mykolaiv, Chernihiv, Zaporizhzhia, Poltava, Kyiv, Odesa, Sumy and Kharkiv regions were attacked by Russia overnight. He said "residential areas and civilians facilities" were hit. In the central city of Dnipro, the president added, there was a "direct hit of a missile with cluster munitions on a high-rising residential building". The BBC has verified footage uploaded this morning showing a missile in flight and an impact, as well as still images of a badly damaged building in the same location in Dnipro. In Russia, Samara regional Governor Vyacheslav Fedorishchev said four people were killed "as a result of an overnight attack by enemy drones". He said that another person was injured, without giving any other details. Ukraine's military said its drones struck the Novokuibyshevsk oil refinery in the Samara region. It also said the Saratov oil refinery was hit overnight in the neighbouring region. Cross-border drone raids have become a prominent feature of the war. In July, a sustained Ukrainian drone attack forced the temporary closure of all of Moscow's airports. Kyiv has been systematically targeting Russian oil and other key industrial facilities, which play a key role in Russia's continuing war effort in Ukraine. Meanwhile, Moscow has in recent weeks escalated its aerial assaults on Ukraine, while Kyiv and its Western allies - including the US - continue to call for a ceasefire. Earlier this month, the main government building was hit in Ukraine's capital Kyiv by what Ukraine said was a Russian Iskander cruise missile. Zelensky said on Saturday that he planned to meet US President Donald Trump on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), taking place in New York next week. Trump hosted Russian President Vladimir Putin in Alaska last month, hoping to secure a deal on ending the conflict. No such agreement was made. Putin launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. The latest Russian aerial attack comes a day after Estonia requested urgent consultations with other Nato members after Russian jets violated its airspace - staying there for 12 minutes before being intercepted. Russia denied violating Estonian airspace. Tensions have been escalating recently after Poland and Romania - both Nato members - said Russian drones breached their airspace earlier this month. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Ukrainian refugee who moved to the UK to build a new life with his family said it took a year before he could sleep soundly at night due to the fear of shelling and air raid sirens. Arthur Polishchuk, 50, moved to Norfolk in 2023, a year after his wife Olena and their three children. Now living independently in Norwich, Mr Polischuk said they were grateful to the host family who first housed them in Shelfanger, near Diss. "They welcomed absolute strangers from another country into their home. They treated us as their family," he said. "They helped us start building our lives from scratch... I've never seen such beautiful people and such a welcoming family in my life." The couple's children, aged between eight and 16, attend local schools and a college, while Mr Polishchuk works as a translator with Ukrainian soldiers preparing for military action in the country. He recalls how the sounds of war while he was still in Ukraine left him "expecting the worst". He said: "It took me another year to stop waking up at night, being afraid of the air raid sirens and expecting some shelling." In Ukraine, Mr Polishchuk used to own a language school and his wife taught English. "When the war started, we actually ran out of students," he said. "We helped most of our students move out of Ukraine because of the invasion and I couldn't run the business any longer." Breckland Council is renewing its appeal for host families to take in Ukrainian refugees for the next 18 months. Conservative councillor Tristan Ashby said there were 900 households in Norfolk used to host Ukrainian refugees, including 52 adults and nine children in Breckland. Norfolk's Lord-Lieutenant, Lady Dannatt, took a mother and a 16-year-old boy into her home during Russia's invasion of Ukraine. "It just seemed absolutely the right thing to do in situations like this," she said. "I always think, supposing it was me and my children, I would be so grateful if people gave me this opportunity." Years on from their arrival, she said the family was now living independently, with the boy, now a 20-year-old man, studying law at university after completing his A-levels in Norwich. She said: "I just feel so proud of them both... I can't say it was a hardship for us. I am just so proud of what they have achieved." Follow Norfolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. The Bishop of Norwich urges people not to lose hope, despite "a sense events are spiralling beyond control". Shakespearean actor Desmond Barrit, who has died aged 81, is remembered as a "giant of a man". The discovery of the gold imitation coin raises more questions than it answers, says a coin expert. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Technology developed by researchers from Leeds will be used to recycle rubble in Ukraine left by the country's ongoing conflict with Russia. Academics at the University of Leeds have partnered with Lviv Polytechnic National University (LPNU) to share ways to repurpose debris into high-quality building materials. Wreckage remnants are typically sent to landfill or reused as low-grade hardcore, backfill or landscaping materials. Dr Oleksii Hunyak, associate professor at LPNU, said the work would "directly contribute to the safe and rapid recovery of Ukraine". It is estimated more than 150,000 buildings and structures have been lost since the conflict between Russia and Ukraine began in 2022. According to the United Nations Development Programme, the cost of rebuilding is thought to be hundreds of billions of pounds. "There is a lot of destruction," said Dr Hunyak. "There is no safe city in Ukraine; it is devastating. "Residential buildings are most affected but bridges, power plants and roads have been destroyed. "It is heartwarming to understand that we can do something practical that can make an impact." Dr Hunyak and his colleague Prof Taras Markiv visited the University of Leeds to share academic research and understand how technology pioneered in Leeds could help rebuild their home. Prof Markiv said: "Two years ago a missile fell not far from my apartment - all of the windows were shattered, our front door was blown out - my children were scared. "I would like to say that I have done my best to rebuild our country. "We will bring the information from the UK and share with our colleagues." The technology includes a mobile advanced dry recovery processor, which fits on the back of a lorry and travels to bomb sites to recycle materials on-site. At each location it upcycles concrete from bombed buildings by separating the damaged material into sand, stone and cement. The system will be deployed in Ukraine through the Safe, Sustainable and Swift Reconstruction of Ukraine (S3RoU) programme. S3RoU is backed by the InnovateUkraine programme, led by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, and is funded by a £16m investment from the UK government. Due to the sheer scale of debris in the war zone, traditional methods to reuse "end-of-life" building materials are not feasible. "There is just too much," said Leon Black, professor of infrastructure materials at the University of Leeds. "This offers a valuable opportunity to share knowledge while promoting environmentally sustainable rebuilding practices." University of Leeds chair of construction materials science, Prof Theodore Hanein, added: "The effects of this project can go beyond Ukraine. "The technology can be used world-wide; it is very important." Listen to highlights from West Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, catch up with the latest episode of Look North. Council officers appoint a demolition firm to carry out work at two residential blocks in Leeds. Laura Blundell gives up her annual leave to volunteer with the charity Mercy Ships in West Africa. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. The 19-year-old man was struck by a car in the Armley area of Leeds on Thursday night. A pilates studio and bar are also part of the proposed scheme in east Leeds. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A lorry packed with furniture from a closed care home is on its way to Ukraine's national eye hospital after 30 volunteers loaded it. The furniture, which included shower chairs, cupboards, armchairs and beds, was donated by the owner of the 21-bed home in Silverstone, Northamptonshire. The operation has involved Ukraine aid groups in Milton Keynes in Buckinghamshire, and Towcester in Northants. The organisers said it was "possibly one of the single largest local aid donations of recent times". The Church of England's Tove Benefice in Towcester has already arranged for seven ambulances full of aid to be sent to the war-torn country, that was invaded by Russia in 2022. But volunteers from the benefice realised the entire contents of a care home was too much for them to manage on their own, so they enlisted the help of Help Ukraine BAMK in Milton Keynes. It took several weeks to fix a date for the clearance operation and find a haulage company that would offer a discounted price for the journey of 1,850 miles to Odesa on Ukraine's Black Sea coast. The vehicle that arrived at the care home took the volunteers by surprise. "We had expected a fixed body lorry, but what arrived to us in Silverstone was a full-length articulated lorry," said Steve Challen from the benefice. "We could not believe it when we 80% filled the lorry at the care home site." Once aid collected in Towcester and Milton Keynes had been added, the vehicle was jam-packed with over 530 boxes and individual items. Nataliya Lawson from Help Ukraine BAMK UK said: "We are immensely grateful to Mr Popat, the owner of Clare House, for his trust and generosity in making this huge donation. "The items will provide much-needed extra hospital capacity for those with eye injuries caused by the war in Ukraine, and also greatly assist the vulnerable elderly in this difficult region." The operation was also supported by Towcester Rotary, Silverstone WI, West Northamptonshire Council and Towcester Community Larder. Follow Beds, Herts and Bucks news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Jamie Tyler, from Rushden, is cast as a swing performer in the latest take on the Dickens classic. Police say officers attended but there were no reports of anyone being threatened or injured. Video shows the top of the 5G mast engulfed in flames after a suspected arson attack. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Canadian minister and member of parliament Chrystia Freeland has announced she will step down from Prime Minister Mark Carney's cabinet and will not run for re-election. Freeland will instead take on a new role as Canada's special envoy to Ukraine, Carney said. She has been a fixture of Canadian politics since 2015, serving as former finance and foreign affairs minister, as well as deputy prime minister. Freeland is also credited with forcing former Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's exit after abruptly resigning from his cabinet last year. She announced her resignation in a post on X, writing that she made the decision "with tremendous gratitude and a little sadness". "I have decided to step down from cabinet today and turn the page on this chapter in my life. I do not intend to run in the next election," she said. In his own statement, Carney thanked Freeland "for her extraordinary service in the Cabinet of Canada's federal government over the last decade". He added that he asked her to serve as Canada's new Special Representative for the Reconstruction of Ukraine, in addition to her role as a Liberal MP. Earlier this year, Canada committed an additional C$2bn ($1.46bn; £1bn) in military assistance to Ukraine. Carney later made a surprise visit to Kyiv in August. Freeland, a former journalist who is of Ukrainian heritage, has long been a vocal supporter of Ukraine in its ongoing war with Russia. In 2014, she was placed on a Kremlin list of westerners who were banned from entering Russia in retaliation of sanctions against Moscow. Since May, she had been serving as Transport and Internal Trade Minister under the Liberal Carney government, overseeing efforts to dismantle internal trade barriers between provinces as Canada works to address the impact of US tariffs. In 2020, Freeland became the first woman to be appointed as finance minister in Canada's history, where she managed Canada's financial response to the Covid-19 pandemic. She abruptly resigned from that post in December 2024 via a letter shared publicly on X, hours before she was due to table a government fiscal update. In the letter, Freeland called out former Prime Minister Trudeau for "costly political gimmicks" and said the two had been "at odds about the best path forward for Canada". The resignation triggered the fall of Trudeau's political career. He later resigned as prime minister in January after nine years in office. Freeland later ran to replace Trudeau as Liberal Party leader but lost to Carney. She is also credited with helping renegotiate the current free trade agreement between Canada, the US and Mexico during President Donald Trump's first term in 2018. Trump later called her "toxic". The USMCA trade deal - or CUSMA in Canada - has been credited with helping the country largely avoid a stiff 35% tariff rate imposed by Trump, who granted Canada an exemption for goods covered by the free trade agreement. That deal is now up for another round of renegotiations in 2026. In her post on X, Freeland said her decision to resign was not made "to spend more time with my family or because the burden of elected office is too heavy to bear". "For me and for my wonderful husband and children, public service has been a privilege and not a sacrifice," she said. "I am grateful for every minute, and I hope more Canadian girls and women will step up and seek the joys and rewards of elected politics for themselves and for their families." The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Canada recently banned 2,500 models of "assault-style" firearms - but a plan to buy-back tens of thousands of guns fell short by half. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Photos of Ukraine's war-torn trees have gone on display in a new exhibition in Coventry. The event at the University of Warwick - entitled Wounded. Alive - was a dedication to trees in the country that had become "silent witnesses of war" but continued to "live and blossom", organisers said. The images were captured by Ukrainian documentary photographer and filmmaker Valentyna Okhlopkova, and depict trees that have been damaged by fire or shrapnel, or torn by explosions. Ms Okhlopkova said: "I love nature very much, and it hurt to see what wounds war causes to our environment. [War] hurts not only people in the country." The images cover different regions of Ukraine where the trees had become symbols of "resilience, memory, and hope", an event spokesperson said. Reflecting on one of her favourite photographs, Ms Okhlopkova, who was a combat photographer in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, explained the image was one of the "most evocative" works. "This tree is located in a completely bombed-out yard, burned. This tree is charred, part of the branches have fallen off, but it has released young leaves," she said. "When I took pictures of him, my soul resonated strongly." The exhibition is on display until 16 September as part of this year's Arboricultural Association Conference. Follow BBC Coventry & Warwickshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. PD Chip has sniffed out many items over the years including sim cards and trackers. More than 300 handwritten memories have been added to the exhibition so far, organisers say. Scott Duffin puts his Coventry memorabilia trove on public display, after five years of collecting. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Since his release from a Russian prison, Dmytro Khyliuk has barely been off the phone. The Ukrainian journalist was detained by Russian forces in the first days of their full-scale invasion. Three and a half years later he's been released in a prisoner swap, one of eight civilians freed in a surprise move. While Russia and Ukraine have swapped military prisoners of war before, it is very rare for Russia to release Ukrainian civilians. Dmytro has been catching up frantically on all he's missed. But he's also phoning the families of every Ukrainian he met in captivity: he memorised all their names and each detail. He knows that for some, his call may be the first confirmation that their relative is alive. There were celebrations here last month when Dmytro was returned from Russia in a group of 146 Ukrainians. A crowd came out waving blue and yellow national flags, cheering as the buses carrying the freed men passed hooting their horns. Most on board were soldiers with sunken cheeks, emaciated after their years behind bars. Officials won't say exactly how they got the eight Ukrainian civilians back in the same exchange, only that it involved sending back in return "people Russia was interested in". One source said those included residents of the Kursk region in Russia, evacuated when Ukrainian forces launched their 2024 incursion. The group's exact status after that is unclear. Stepping off the bus to a cheering crowd, Dmytro's first phone call was to tell his mother he was free. Both his parents are elderly and unwell and his greatest fear had been never seeing them again. "The hardest was not knowing when you'll be allowed back. You could be freed the next day or stay prisoner for 10 years. Nobody knows how long it's for." We met Dmytro shortly after his release as he recuperated at a Kyiv hospital. The details he shared of his captivity are chilling. "They grabbed us and literally dragged us to the prison and on the way they beat us with rubber batons shouting things like, 'How many people have you killed?'" he said, describing his transfer to Russia. He was held in multiple facilities and his account chimes with many others we've heard over the years. "Sometimes they'd let the guard dog off its leash so that it could bite us. The cruelty was really shocking and it was constant." He tells me he was bitten and left bleeding. "I was so stressed I only felt the pain 20 minutes later." The journalist was never charged with any crime. Physically the first year was the hardest. "We were starving. We were given very little food for a long time," he remembers. He lost more than 20kg in the first few months, causing him dizzy spells. But the soldiers he was held with were treated far worse. "They would call them for interrogation, and they were beaten and tortured with electric shock," Dmytro remembers. He heard their pain and saw the bruises. The journalist's family home is a world away from all that, in the pretty village of Kozarovychi just outside Kyiv. It feels peaceful, apart from the air raids, with gardens full of poultry, blackberry bushes and fruit trees. But the back wall of Dmytro's house still has chunks torn out of it by shrapnel and the lawn was only just repaired where Russian troops had parked a tank. In 2022, right at the start of their full-scale invasion when the Russians were advancing on Kyiv, they took over the village. A few days later, as Dmytro and his father, Vasyl, tried to check the damage to their home, they were detained. Russian troops forced both men to the ground, bound and blindfolded them, and marched them into captivity. The pair now know they were held in a basement beneath the local warehouses where the Russians had made their base. The men were moved several times as the number of civilian detainees increased. Vasyl was eventually set free but for many months he feared the worst for his son. "I didn't know where he'd been taken and I was scared," the pensioner tells me. "There were gunshots at night. One man was taken outside, then a shot was fired. He didn't come back. I still don't know the fate of all the people who were there." Then he and his wife got a tiny scrap of paper from a Russian prison. "I'm alive, I'm well. Everything's ok," Dmytro wrote to them both, in Ukrainian. They would receive just one more note in his entire time in captivity. Other families have had no news at all. Across Ukraine, officials say more than 16,000 civilians are currently missing. So far, they've only located a fraction of them in Russian prisons. Moscow doesn't publish lists because detaining civilians with no cause is illegal. But that makes getting them back extremely complicated. Forty-three men are still being held from the area around Dmytro's village alone. They include Volodymyr Loburets, detained at the same time, held in the same basements and then moved to Russia. He now has a new grandson he's never met and a family who miss him badly. "It's hard. It's really hard. We smile, yes, and thank goodness, I have a new grandson," Volodymyr's wife Vera says, as baby Yaroslav gurgles beside her on a play mat. "But I had a husband – and now I don't." "The government says it won't swap our relatives for Russian soldiers, so we are left waiting for the fourth year running until there is some way to get them back." Vera is deeply frustrated. But so is Ukraine's human rights ombudsman. Dmytro Lubinets describes dealing with Russia as like playing chess: you stick to all the rules, only for your opponent to stand up, pull on boxing gloves and punch you. The problem is, Ukraine can't hit back. It has no pool of Russian civilian prisoners because it's against the rules of war under the Geneva Convention. Sending Russian soldiers back in return for Ukrainian civilians would be a disaster. "The very next day Russia would take thousands of civilians hostage in occupied areas, just to swap for its soldiers," the ombudsman points out. "So Russia is capturing our civilians and there is no legal mechanism to return them." There has been one trade involving Ukrainian citizens detained and sentenced here for collaborating with the enemy: a group – said to be volunteers – was swapped for Ukrainian civilians held in Russia. It's not clear whether that has been repeated. For Dmytro's family, the long and painful wait is almost over. He'll join them in the village as soon as the hospital declares him fit again. His mother, Halyna, jokes that she has a long list of jobs for her only son - fixing all the damage done by the Russians. In fact, she can barely mention his name without crying. "I can't control my emotions," she tells me, in tears. "When Dima called, he told me to be calm. That he was back in Ukraine and I shouldn't cry anymore. But we haven't seen our son for three and a half years!" Dmytro is taking it slowly though, because being back here requires some adjusting. "I knew the war was still going on, but not that they were bombarding Kyiv with drones and that was unexpected and sad," he says. "So the trees are the same, the buildings are the same. But you understand this is a different country. You're in a different reality." Additional reporting by Mariana Matveichuk and Kristina Volk A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
In a large field 45 miles (72km) from Belarus' capital Minsk, a battle is raging. There are giant explosions as Sukhoi-34 bombers drop guided bombs. Huge plumes of smoke darken the sky. The whole area echoes to the sound of exploding mortar and artillery shells. Helicopter gunships join the attack, while surveillance drones sweep overhead to view the damage. Together with other international media we've been brought to the Borisovsky training ground where Belarusian and Russian forces are taking part in joint manoeuvres. It's part of the Zapad-2025 ("West 2025") military drills. Military attachés, too, from a variety of embassies are observing the drill from a viewing platform. These are planned exercises - "West 2025" takes place every four years. In 2022 200,000 troops took part, while this year's exercises involved fewer soldiers. Moscow and Minsk maintain that the drills are of a purely defensive nature, that they're designed to strengthen the security of Russia and Belarus and to counter any potential external threat. I remember hearing similar claims three and a half years ago. In February 2022 I visited Belarus to report on the Belarusian-Russian military exercise "Union Resolve". When the exercise was over, instead of returning home Russian troops invaded neighbouring Ukraine from the territory of Belarus. This time Belarus insists it has nothing to hide. Representatives of 23 states, including the US, Turkey and Hungary, watched the military exercise. "We consider that the exercise is unprecedented in its transparency," Major General Valery Revenko, assistant to the Belarusian defence minister, told journalists at the training ground. "We are not threatening anyone. We are for constructive and pragmatic dialogue." Clearly Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk isn't convinced. He had dubbed the "West 2025" drills "very aggressive". Poland shut its border with Belarus ahead of the exercises, prompting an angry response from Minsk. "West 2025" coincides with a period of heightened tension in the eastern European region. To the south, Russia shows no sign of ending its war on Ukraine. Last week Poland accused Russia of intentionally violating its air space with a Russian drone incursion. Nato scrambled fighter jets to shoot down some of the drones. Moscow responded by claiming that it "hadn't planned to engage targets on Polish territory." Yesterday Romania revealed that a Russian drone had breached its airspace, too. In Europe there is widespread concern that such drone incursions are no accident, but a Russian strategy to test the unity and resolve of European leaders and of the Nato alliance. Both Russia and Belarus have made efforts recently to improve ties with Washington and to construct a relationship with the Trump administration. But in the case of both Moscow and Minsk relations with Europe remain strained. The decision by the Belarusian authorities to invite international media to the "West 2025" exercise can be seen two ways. First, as an attempt at transparency - that's certainly how Minsk is portraying it. But in the explosions and the gunfire on the Borisovsky training ground there is, perhaps too, a message for the West. And first and foremost, for Europe. That message may read something like this: "See and consider the firepower on your doorstep; confrontation with Moscow is not in your best interest." A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has said he is ready to impose tougher sanctions on Russia, but only if Nato countries meet certain conditions which include stopping buying Russian oil. In a post on his Truth Social platform, he said he was "ready to do major sanctions on Russia" once Nato nations had "agreed, and started, to do the same thing". Trump has repeatedly threatened tougher measures against Moscow, but has so far failed to take any action when the Kremlin ignored his deadlines and threats of sanctions. He described the purchases of Russian oil as "shocking" and also suggested that Nato place 50 to 100% tariffs on China, claiming it would weaken its "strong control" over Russia. In what he called a letter to Nato nations, Trump said: "I am ready to 'go' when you are. Just say when?" He added "the purchase of Russian oil, by some, has been shocking! It greatly weakens your negotiating position, and bargaining power, over Russia". Trump also claimed the halt on Russian energy purchases, combined with heavy tariffs on China "to be fully withdrawn" after the war, would be of "great help" in ending the conflict. Europe's reliance on Russian energy has fallen dramatically since the start of Moscow's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. In 2022, the EU got about 45% of its gas from Russia. That is expected to fall to about 13% this year, though Trump's words suggest he feels that figure is not enough. The US president's message came during heightened tensions between Nato allies and Russia after more than a dozen Russian drones entered Polish airspace on Wednesday. Warsaw said the incursion was deliberate, but Moscow downplayed the incident and said it had "no plans to target" facilities in Poland. Denmark, France and Germany have joined a new Nato mission to bolster the alliance's eastern flank, and will move military assets eastwards. Last week, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky also made a demand to European nations over the purchase of Russian oil and gas. In an interview with ABC News, he said: "We have to stop [buying] any kind of energy from Russia, and by the way, anything, any deals with Russia. We can't have any deals if we want to stop them." Since 2022, European nations have spent around €210bn (£182bn) on Russian oil and gas, according to the think tank the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, much of which will have funded the invasion of Ukraine. The EU has previously committed to phasing out the purchases by 2028. The US want that to happen faster - partly by buying supplies from them instead. Trump's message was to Nato, not the EU, therefore including nations such as Turkey, a major buyer of Russian oil and a country that has maintained closer relations with Moscow that any other member of the alliance. Persuading Ankara to cut off Russian supplies may be a far harder task. Trump's most recent threat of tougher sanctions on Russia came earlier in September after the Kremlin's heaviest bombardment on Ukraine since the war began. Asked by reporters if he was prepared to move to the "second phase" of punishing Moscow, Trump replied: "Yeah, I am," though gave no details. The US previously placed tariffs of 50% on goods from India - which included a 25% penalty for transactions with Russia that are a key source of funds for the war in Ukraine. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Prince Harry made a surprise visit to Kyiv on Friday, after an invitation by an organisation that supports Ukrainians with life-changing injuries caused by the war. The Duke of Sussex arrived by train and said he wanted to do "everything possible" to help the recovery of injured military personnel. Superhumans, which helps provide those injured with prosthetic limbs and rehabilitation, told the BBC that it invited Prince Harry to Ukraine. Founder Olha Rudnieva greeted the prince off the train with a hug, a video released by Ukrainian Railways showed. She handed him a podstakannik – a silver holder for a glass used to drink tea, traditionally provided on night trains across Ukraine. Harry visited a centre run by the organisation in Lviv in April, but this was his first visit to the capital. There are tens of thousands of soldiers and civilians with amputations as a result of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine – numbers vary, as Ukraine doesn't give precise statistics on military casualties. The prince took part in a panel discussion at Kyiv's National Museum of the History of Ukraine in the Second World War - where he advised those leaving military service that there is "light at the end of the tunnel". "You will feel lost at times, like you lack purpose," said Harry, who spent 10 years in the British army. "Don't stay silent. Silence will hold you in the dark. "Open up to your friends and family, because in doing so you give them permission to do the same." Among the people Harry met during the trip was war veteran Vasyl Tamulis, who told the Reuters news agency: "My main goal was to get a photograph with him because not many people have a photograph with [a] prince." "Being selected for Invictus Games unites people and motivates because it is a very difficult selection process," he added, referring to the international multi-sport competition Harry set up for injured and sick military service personnel - both serving and veterans. The duke also met privately with Ukraine's Minister for Veteran Affairs Natalia Kalmykova and attended a fundraising lunch in support of the Superhumans Centre in Lviv. Ahead of the trip, Prince Harry told the Guardian: "We cannot stop the war but what we can do is do everything we can to help the recovery process." "We can continue to humanise the people involved in this war and what they are going through." The paper reported that Harry was joined by a team from his Invictus Games Foundation, which he launched in 2014. Ukraine was given special permission to compete in the games by President Zelensky in 2022, just months after the war began. During the opening ceremony, the prince said the world was "united" with the country. His visit to Kyiv came after the Sussex's charitable foundation Archewell said on Wednesday that it had donated $500,000 (£369,000) to projects supporting injured children from Ukraine and Gaza. It said the grants would be used to help the World Health Organization with medical evacuations, and to fund work developing prosthetics for young people. Other members of the Royal Family have expressed support for Ukraine since the start of the war more than three years ago. The King welcomed Zelensky to his Sandringham estate in Norfolk in March, having previously said the country had faced "indescribable aggression" from Russia. The Prince of Wales, Harry's brother, met Ukrainian refugees during a two-day visit to Estonia in March - where he said their resilience was "amazing". His trip to Ukraine came after he met his father King Charles in London on Wednesday, their first face-to-face meeting since February 2024. UK Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper was also in Kyiv on Friday, where she announced a further £142 million in UK aid to support Ukraine's energy infrastructure and vulnerable communities, while 100 new sanctions will aim to further hit Russia's economy and military supplies. During the visit, Cooper met Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, Prime Minister Yulia Svyrydenko and foreign minister Andrii Sybiha. The UK foreign office said that the visit reaffirms the UK's support for Ukraine. Andrew-Mountbatten Windsor and his family are absent from the traditional family event. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Bruno Peek sells off Royal memorabilia and says he hopes the new owners will treasure the items too. Despite political tensions between the US and UK, the King will travel to Washington next month. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The white armoured police van speeds into the eastern Ukrainian town of Bilozerske, a steel cage mounted across its body to protect it from Russian drones. They'd already lost one van, a direct hit from a drone to the front of the vehicle; the cage, and powerful rooftop drone jamming equipment, offer extra protection. But still, it's dangerous being here: the police, known as the White Angels, want to spend as little time in Bilozerske as possible. The small, pretty mining town, just nine miles (14km) from the front line, is slowly being destroyed by Russia's summer offensive. The local hospital and banks have long since closed. The stucco buildings in the town square are shattered from drone attacks, the trees along its avenues are broken and splintered. Neat rows of cottages with corrugated roofs and well-tended gardens stream past the car windows. Some are untouched, others burned-out shells. A rough estimate is that 700 inhabitants remain in Bilozerske from a pre-war population of 16,000. But there is little evidence of them - the town already looks abandoned. An estimated 218,000 people need evacuation from the Donetsk region, in eastern Ukraine, including 16,500 children. The area, which is crucial to the country's defence, is bearing the brunt of Russia's invasion, including daily attacks from drones and missiles. Some are unable to leave, others unwilling. Authorities will help evacuate those in front-line areas, but they can't rehouse them once they're out of danger. And despite the growing threat from Russian drones there are those who would rather take their chances than leave their homes. The police are looking for the house of one woman who does want to leave. Their van can't make it down one of the roads. So, on foot, a policeman goes searching, the hum of the drone jammer and its invisible protection receding as he heads down a lane. Eventually he finds the woman under the eaves of her cottage, a sign on her door reading "People Live Here". She has dozens of bags and two dogs. It's too much for the police to carry: they already have evacuees and their belongings crammed inside the white van. The woman faces a choice - leave behind her belongings, or stay. She decides to wait. There will be another evacuation team here soon and they will take her belongings too. To stay or go is a life-or-death calculation. Civilian casualties in Ukraine reached a three-year high in July of this year, according to the latest available figures from the United Nations, with 1,674 people killed or injured. Most occur in front-line towns. The same month saw the highest number killed and injured by short-range drones since the start of the full-scale invasion, the UN said. The nature of the threat to civilians in war has changed. Where once artillery and rocket strikes were the main threat, now they face being chased down by Russian first person view (FPV) drones, that follow and then strike. As the police leave town, an old man pushing a bicycle appears. He's the only soul I see on the streets that day. Most of those remaining in front-line towns are older people, who make up a disproportionate number of civilian casualties, according to the UN. He tells me to move to the side of the road, out of the way of non-existent traffic. Volodymyr Romaniuk is 73 years old and is risking his life for the two cooking pots he's collected on the back of his bike. His sister-in-law's house was destroyed in a Russian attack, so he came today to salvage the pots. Isn't he afraid of the drones, I ask.  "What will be, will be. You know, at 73 years old, I'm not afraid anymore. I've already lived my life," he says. He's in no rush to get off the streets. A former football referee, he slowly removes a folded card from his jacket pocket and shows me his official Collegium of Football Referees card. It's dated April 1986 – the month of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster. He's from the west of Ukraine and could return there out of harm's way. "I stayed here for my wife," he tells me. She's had multiple surgeries and wouldn't be able to make the journey. And with that, he leaves, and heads home to care for his wife, the two metal pots on the back of his bike rattling as he moves along the empty street. Slovyansk is further back from the front, 25km away, and faces a different drone threat. Shahed drones have been dubbed "flying mopeds" by Ukrainians because of their puttering engines. Swarms of them attack Slovyansk often. There is a change in the drone's hum before it dives and then explodes. At night, Nadiia and Oleh Moroz hear them but still they won't leave Slovyansk. They have poured blood and sweat into this land - and at their son's graveside, tears too. Serhii was 29, a lieutenant in the army killed by a cluster bomb near Svatove in November 2022. He and his father, Oleh, first fought together in 2015 against the Russians in Donbas. They worked side by side, as sappers. Serhii's trident-shaped grave sits on a hillside overlooking Slovyansk, his portrait and a map of Ukraine on the polished black stone. Nadiia, 53, visits often. On the afternoon I meet her, Russian artillery is landing on a nearby hillside. But she pays little attention as she fusses around the grave and whispers sweet nothings to her dead son. "How can you lose the place where you were born, where you grew up, where your child grew up, where he found his final rest?" she tells me through tears. "And then to live your whole life with the feeling that you will never again visit this place - I cannot even imagine that right now." But her husband Oleh, 55, admits they will have to leave when the fighting comes closer. "I won't stay here, the Russians would put a target on me straight away," he says. Until then they will stay under the nightly terror of drones so that they can remain close to their son's final resting place. Life's challenges don't stop when war arrives. All Olha Zaiets wants is time to recover from her cancer surgery. Instead, the 53-year-old and her husband Oleksander Ponomarenko, 59, had to flee their home in Oleksandrivka. The Russians were only 7.5km away and the shelling became intense. Their postwoman was killed in a Russian bombardment, and the school principal too. "There was a strike - a missile hit the neighbouring house. And the blast wave smashed our roof tiles, blew out the doors, the windows, the gates, the fence. We had just left, and two days later it hit. If we had been there, we would have died," she explains. Now they are living, temporarily, in a borrowed house in Sviatohirsk. It isn't much better. We can hear shelling outside, the front line edges closer every day. But it will have to do. They have nowhere else to go. "Yes, we will have to move farther away somewhere, but we don't know how or where," she says in a room crowded with their belongings, still waiting to be unpacked. Their life savings have gone on her hospital bills and now they are out of options. On Tuesday they left the town to collect Olha's test results. The news was good and she won't have to undergo chemotherapy. "We were happy, we felt like we were flying on wings," she said. But while they were gone, Russia bombed the nearby town of Yarova, 4km away. It was just before 11am and older people had left their homes and gathered to collect their pensions. Some 24 were killed and 19 wounded in one of the deadliest strikes on civilians in the war so far. On Telegram, the head of the Donetsk administration, Vadym Filashkin, decried the attack. "This is not warfare – this is pure terrorism." "I urge everyone," he said, "take care of yourselves. Evacuate to safer regions of Ukraine!" Additional reporting by Liubov Sholudko A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine has struck Russia's largest oil terminal on the Baltic Sea during one of its biggest overnight drone attacks in months. The aerial assault targeted the Primorsk oil port in the Leningrad region, the final station of the Baltic Pipeline System and a crucial hub for Russia's maritime exports, Ukraine's security services told multiple outlets. More than half of the 221 drones sent to Russian territory were intercepted over the Bryansk and Smolensk regions, where Lukoil facilities were also reportedly targeted, the Russian defence ministry said. Meanwhile, officials said two civilians were killed in Ukraine's Sumy region when a Russian glide bomb struck a village near the border. Authorities in the Leningrad region said 28 drones were brought down and that a fire had broken out at a vessel and a pumping station in Primorsk. They added that the blaze was extinguished without casualties or leaks. The port is also central to Russia's so-called "shadow fleet" of ageing tankers used to skirt international sanctions. The Ukrainian security services said drone strikes also hit several pumping stations feeding the Ust-Luga terminal, near the border with Estonia. Russian state energy firm Rosatom reported a drone attack on a power unit at its Smolensk Nuclear Power Plant, near the Belarussian border. Russian officials said drones were intercepted across at least nine other regions, including Kaluga, Novgorod and the Moscow area, where nine drones were said to have been destroyed. Debris was recorded across several areas, though authorities insisted there had been no casualties. In Bryansk, southwest of the capital, a drone hit a bus, injuring seven people, including five civilians and two military personnel, the region's Governor Alexander Bogomaz said. Operations at St Petersburg's Pulkovo airport were briefly suspended. Moscow's figures, which the BBC has been unable to independently verify, suggest Thursday night's attack constituted one of the largest Ukrainian aerial bombardments in over four months. Russia said it destroyed a record 524 drones on 7 May. By comparison, Ukrainian officials said Russia had deployed 818 drones against their territory in recent weeks. The aerial assault is being described as one of the most significant for the Leningrad region since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine three-and-a-half years ago. The attack saw operations at St Petersburg's Pulkovo airport temporarily suspended. Cross-border drone raids have become an increasingly prominent feature of the war. In July, a sustained Ukrainian drone attack forced the temporary closure of all of Moscow's airports. In recent months, Ukrainian strikes have reached deeper into Russian territory, hitting refineries, fuel depots and logistics hubs hundreds of miles from the frontlines in a bid to limit fuel supplies and drive up costs. While these strikes have been ongoing for more than a year, they escalated sharply in August, with more than a dozen refineries hit. The damage, coupled with Western sanctions, is proving increasingly difficult to repair. During those attacks, Ukraine disabled 20% of Russia's oil refining capacity during August, the White House said last month - though Russian media has downplayed the cause of the damage, citing "unscheduled repairs". But Russian newspaper Moskovskij Komsomolets warned this week that petrol supplies were "near critical", with drivers in far eastern Russia reporting kilometre-long queues, rationing and soaring prices. Strikes have also hit the Druzhba pipeline, disrupting exports to Hungary and Slovakia - potentially cutting off a key source of foreign currency for Russia. Moscow has intensified its missile and drone attacks on Ukrainian cities and energy facilities over the summer as US-led efforts to reach a peace agreement faltered. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Friday that there had been a "pause" in peace negotiations, blaming Ukraine's European allies for "hindering" the process. Thursday night's attacks came ahead of the start of a major joint military exercise between Russia and ally Belarus on Friday, which is staged every four years. But this time it is taking place just days after a number of Russian drones were shot down or fell on Poland, in what Warsaw called an unprecedented incursion into its airspace. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Yvette Cooper has announced a funding boost for Ukraine alongside a raft of new sanctions on Russia, as she visits Kyiv in her first overseas trip as foreign secretary. A further £142 million in UK aid will support Ukraine's energy infrastructure and vulnerable communities, while 100 new sanctions will aim to further hit Russia's economy and military supplies. Cooper was met by Ukrainian foreign minister Andrii Sybiha at a railway station in Kyiv on Friday morning, and later met President Volodymyr Zelensky. Her visit, which the Foreign Office says reaffirms the UK's support for Ukraine, comes days after Russian drones violating Polish airspace were shot down by Poland and Nato. The Foreign Office said there had been "a summer of Russian delay tactics at peace talks" aimed at ending the conflict in the region, as well as increased attacks on Ukrainian civilians and infrastructure. Cooper added support for Kyiv was "unwavering and stronger than ever" and that fresh funding would support Ukraine through the winter and into 2026. She continued: "Putin's bombardment of Ukrainian civilians, his stalling and delaying in internationally-backed peace talks, and his blatant disregard for human life must end." Of the funding boost, £100 million will be used to help civilians in frontline communities, including to repair critical water and heating systems, support livelihoods and strengthen resilience over the winter. The remaining £42 million will go towards carrying out vital repairs to Ukraine's electricity network and putting in place critical protection for gas and power infrastructure. Cooper will visit Kyiv's cabinet of ministers government building, which was hit for the first time on Sunday when Russia carried out its largest aerial attack on Ukraine since the war began. She will also visit a residential building destroyed by a Russian strike. Separately, Prince Harry made a surprise visit to Kyiv on Friday after an invitation by an organisation that supports Ukrainians with life-changing injuries caused by the war. The Duke of Sussex, who arrived by train on Friday morning, said he wanted to do "everything possible" to help the recovery of injured military personnel. As well as hitting economic and military targets, the Foreign Office said fresh sanctions on Russia will also hit 70 more ships involved in Putin's "shadow fleet" operation, responsible for illicitly carrying cargo including oil exports since the war began. Among the companies sanctioned are firms which supply Russia with equipment such as electronics, chemicals and explosives used to manufacture missiles and other weapons. Cooper said the measures "form the next stage in the UK's leading efforts to ramp up economic pressure, alongside our security support and our work alongside the coalition of the willing for a just and lasting peace in Ukraine". Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. There have been international talks in recent months aimed at ending the conflict, though these have not resulted in any meaningful progress. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Ukraine's president says partners asked if the attacks could be "reduced" as prices soar due to the Iran war. The third annual Ukrainian Cultural Festival takes place at Airedale Shopping Centre on Saturday. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Several Nato members are sending troops, artillery, and air defence systems to secure its eastern flank after what Poland called an unprecedented Russian drone incursion into its airspace. In the early hours of Wednesday, three Russian drones were shot down after crossing into Polish airspace. Other drones crashed to the ground and were later found across eastern Poland. Poland has requested a UN Security Council session about the incident, which will take place on Friday at 19:00 GMT. In response to the drone incursion, the Netherlands and the Czech Republic said they would send defences to Poland, while Lithuania would receive a German brigade and greater warning of Russian attacks on Ukraine that could cross over. Germany also said it would "intensify its engagement along Nato's eastern border" and extend and expand air policing over Poland. Later France's Emmanuel Macron announced the country would send three Rafale fighter jets to help protect Poland's airspace. "We will not yield to Russia's growing intimidation," Macron said. US President Donald Trump, who has been trying unsuccessfully to broker a halt to the war in Ukraine, told reporters on Thursday that the alleged incursion might have happened by "mistake". "I'm not happy about anything to do with the whole situation, but hopefully that's going to come to an end," Trump said. Addressing parliament on Thursday, Polish Defence Minister Wladyslaw Kosiniak-Kamysz listed the offers of support from Poland's partners, saying the Dutch were going to deploy air defence systems, artillery and 300 troops, while the Czech would send helicopters and 100 soldiers. He also said the French and the British could deploy aircraft to secure Nato's eastern flank. "Poland has repeatedly heard words of solidarity and empty gestures throughout its history," Kosiniak-Kamysz said. "Today, we have concrete declarations." Although Russian drones and missiles have trespassed into some Nato member countries before, this was the most serious incident of its kind since Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. The Kremlin said it had no further comment to make on claims that Russia had deliberately sought to stoke tensions in Poland. Yet many Polish and European leaders believe the incursion was deliberate. "This Russian provocation...is nothing more than an attempt to test our capabilities," Poland's President Karol Nawrocki said, echoing comments by his German and French counterparts. However, experts' opinions are split on whether Moscow intended to launch the drones into Poland. On Thursday, Nato's top military commander Alexus Grynkewich acknowledged it was not yet known whether the act had been intentional and said even the precise number of drones which had crossed into Polish airspace was still to be determined. But in the face of growing nervousness from the countries bordering Russia, neither Nato nor Poland are taking any chances. Warsaw will set restrictions for drones and small air traffic along its eastern borders with Belarus and Ukraine, and Latvia has announced its eastern airspace would be closed for a week. Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky offered to provide guidance and training to Western military representatives on how to fend off Russian aerial attacks as Ukrainian defence forces do on a near-nightly basis. Zelensky also called for a joint air defence system to act as an air shield over Europe as a response for Russia's "insolent" behaviour. Adding to the anxiety felt in some quarters of eastern Europe are major joint military exercises between Belarus and Russia, dubbed Zapad 2025, due to start on Friday. Poland is due to close its border on Thursday at 00:00 local time (22:00 BST) "for national security reasons... in connection with the Zapad manoeuvres," which it called "very aggressive". Russia has urged Polish authorities to re-open its border with Belarus, warning its closure "will cause serious damage" to businesses and freedom of movement. "We call on Warsaw to think about the consequences of such destructive steps and reconsider the decision as soon as possible", Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said. The previous Zapad drills were staged several months before the start of the war in Ukraine and involved about 200,000 troops in total. This year's exercise will be smaller in scale, according to Lithuanian military intelligence chief Mindaugas Mazonas, and involve up to 30,000 troops in total. The response by US President Donald Trump to the drone incursion has so far been muted. "What's with Russia violating Poland's airspace with drones? Here we go!", he wrote on social media on Wednesday without elaborating further. Polish President Nawrocki said he and his US counterpart had spoken as "part of a series of consultations" with allies and said the talks "reaffirmed our unity". A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. The World Cup includes 48 nations, but there are still a number of top players who have missed out on qualification. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Wednesday morning's incursion of Russian drones into Polish airspace led to jets being scrambled, an emergency government meeting being called - and concerns that Europe and Nato's resolve against Moscow may not be up to the test. Poland's Prime Minister Donald Tusk said Polish airspace was violated 19 times and at least three drones were shot down by Warsaw's jets, aided by Dutch F-35s and an Italian early warning aircraft. Russia has pushed back against accusations that the incursion was deliberate – though it also stopped short of denying its drones had trespassed sovereign Polish airspace. "No objects on Polish territory were planned to be targeted," Moscow said. But European officials have forcefully batted off suggestions the act may have been unintentional. "There is no evidence whatsoever that this amount of drones flew over this route over... Polish territory by accident," Germany's Defence Minister Boris Pistorius said, while his Italian counterpart Guido Crosetto called the overnight events in Poland a "deliberate attack" with the double aim of "provoking and testing". Although Poland has experienced several violations of its airspace since neighbouring Ukraine was attacked by Russia in February 2022, this latest incursion - sizeable, and deep into Polish territory - sparked real nervousness in Warsaw. Tusk warned that Poland was at its closest to open conflict since World War Two. He also requested invoking Article 4 of the Nato treaty, which allows member countries to start a discussion with allies about threats to their security. Some experts and analysts are divided over Russia's motivations. To some, the drones – some of which flew in the direction of Rzeszow airport, a major logistical hub for defence supplies and humanitarian aid bound for Ukraine – may have had reconnaissance purposes, with poor guidance leading to accidental airspace trespass. "There is an issue with proving intention," said Dr Marina Miron, a defence researcher at Kings College London. She believes GPS spoofing may have been responsible for the drones crossing into Polish airspace and cautioned against drawing conclusions based on snippets of information. "It can lead [the incident] to appear as something it is not," Dr Miron added. Many others believe, however, the relatively high number of drones flown into Polish airspace clearly demonstrates that the attack was deliberate. "Previous incursions were single or very small numbers that were more easily explained by guidance system malfunctions," Justin Bronk of the defence think tank Rusi told the BBC. Justin Crump, CEO of the risk and intelligence company Sibylline, agreed. He said the drones in question appear to be Russian-made cheap, long-range drone Gerberas which can be used as decoys to distract defences as part of Russia's increasing "grey zone actions against Nato". The lack of warheads on the Gerberas drones employed on Wednesday make them appear less threatening and allow Russia to play down the action, Mr Crump added. Poland will now need to review the incident and share the findings with its allies. Whether deliberate or not, the unprecedented incident will provide valuable information to Moscow on the type of response it can expect from the West should it ever decide to launch an attack on Nato countries, as many European leaders have said they expect it to do in the near future. "It is a test for Europe and for Nato regardless of Russia's intent",  said Keir Giles, a senior fellow in the Russia and Eurasia program at Chatham House. "Russia will learn from European resolve and specifically Poland's capacity to withstand attacks of this kind." Expressions of condemnation rather than a robust response will be just as encouraging to Russia if it was an accident as if it were a deliberate provocation, Mr Giles added. He said a sky shield to protect airspace over Ukraine would prove to Russia the West is serious about ensuring air threats are intercepted. But such a plan - which would involve European countries deploying fighter jets and pilots - has led to fears of accidental confrontation with the Russians and has not come to pass despite first being floated since 2023. The US's reaction to the incident in Poland will also be awaited – and closely followed. Some US lawmakers in both the Democrat and Republican camps condemned the attack soon after it occurred. However, as of Wednesday evening US President Donald Trump had only acknowledged the events in Poland through a post on social media. "What's with Russia violating Poland's airspace with drones? Here we go!", he wrote without elaborating further. The cryptic post was in line with his ambiguous relationship with Russia and its President Vladimir Putin. Over the course of the last month Trump both rolled out the red carpet for the Russian president and threatened sanctions against Moscow if it failed to reach peace with Kyiv. These threats have not yet materialised, and even warnings of unspecified "consequences" for Russia's aggression in Ukraine appear to have fallen by the wayside. As its leaders scramble to put together a show of unity and strength, Europe – which has been concerned about the American commitment to the security of the continent since the start of Trump's second term – will be watching the US's next move just as closely as Russia. "A sign of weakness and failure to impose costs and consequences will confirm for Moscow that they can continue to escalate without fear of the outcome," Mr Giles said. Additional reporting by Matt Murphy and Paul Brown A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. The World Cup includes 48 nations, but there are still a number of top players who have missed out on qualification. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
At least three Russian drones were shot down by Polish and other Nato aircraft in Poland's airspace during overnight attacks on Ukraine, the Polish prime minister has said. Donald Tusk said Poland had recorded 19 drone incursions, with some flying deep enough to temporarily close four airports, including Warsaw's main hub Chopin. "This situation brings us the closest we have been to open conflict since World War Two," he said. This is the first time Russian drones have been downed over Nato territory since Moscow's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Russia's defence ministry said there had been "no plans" to target facilities on Polish soil. "The maximum range of the Russian drones that allegedly crossed into Poland does not exceed 700km (435 miles)", the ministry said in a statement, adding that it was "ready" to hold consultations with the Polish defence ministry. Russia's temporary charge d'affaires in Poland said Warsaw had not provided evidence that the drones were of Russian origin. Belarus, a close Russian ally, claimed the drones entered Polish airspace accidentally after their navigation systems were jammed. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky warned this was "an extremely dangerous precedent for Europe". Ukrainian Defence Minister Denys Shmyhal told BBC Radio 4's World Tonight: "This is a moment when Nato allies, European civilisations, realise that the world is changed and that Russian aggression on Ukrainian territory is not just between Russia and Ukraine. This is part of global Russian strategy." US President Donald Trump wrote on social media platform Truth Social on Wednesday: "What's with Russia violating Poland's airspace with drones? Here we go!" Addressing Polish lawmakers on Wednesday, Tusk said three - or perhaps four - drones were shot down overnight. He said Polish authorities had no information suggesting anyone was injured or died "as a result of the Russian action". "The fact that these drones, which posed a security threat, were shot down changes the political situation. "I have no reason to claim we're on the brink of war, but a line has been crossed, and it's incomparably more dangerous than before." Interior Ministry spokeswoman Karolina Gałecka said on Wednesday evening that authorities had found 15 drones. Most had been located in the eastern Lublin region, bordering Belarus and Ukraine. Five had been discovered in central, western and southern Poland, much further from the borders, she added. Tusk also said he had sought to invoke Article 4 of the Nato treaty, which formally starts urgent consultations within the 32-member alliance. Poland is a member state of Nato - which ties the US and many European nations together on collective defence. Both Tusk and Nawrocki said they were in "regular contact" with Nato Secretary General Mark Rutte, who praised a "very successful reaction" by the alliance. The Polish defence ministry told the BBC that the drones, "which could have posed a threat, were shot down pre-emptively". "Polish and Nato aircraft, including F-35, F-16, and MI-24, MI-17, and Black Hawk helicopters, were dispatched to the intended area of operation. Ground-based air defence and radar reconnaissance systems were also placed on maximum alert." Poland's military also thanked Nato's Air Command and the Netherlands for deploying F-35 fighter jets. The Russian drones that entered Poland were part of the latest major aerial attack on Ukraine, with Kyiv reporting that more than 400 drones and 42 missiles were launched. Poland has recorded individual aerial incursions on several occasions since Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, including one that killed two Polish farmers near the Ukrainian border in November 2022. But the latest incident was one of a different magnitude, Justyna Gotkowska, deputy director for the Warsaw-based Centre for Eastern Studies, told the BBC - significant "because of the scale, several drones armed and unarmed." The drones were a "Russian provocation" designed to test Poland's ability to react "in a very polarised political situation" and exploit existing divisions, she said. But, "the reaction on the Polish side was united, civil, military and political, Polish-Nato co-ordination." Miroslaw Kaznowski - deputy mayor of MIlanówek, a town outside Warsaw - said he was pleased by the authorities' reaction, but stressed that small towns like his urgently needed to do more to be able to protect themselves. "We need to be prepared. This has all now gone higher on the agenda," he told the BBC, adding that MIlanówek was now building a multi-functional fire station that would be used for crisis management. Additional reporting by Thomas Mackintosh A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump has called on the European Union (EU) to hit China and India with tariffs of up to 100% to force Russian president Vladimir Putin to end the war in Ukraine. The US president made the demand during a meeting between US and EU officials on Tuesday discussing options to increase economic pressure on Russia, a source familiar with the discussions has told the BBC. Trump, who previously pledged to end the conflict on "day one" of becoming president, is struggling to broker a peace deal between Moscow and Kyiv, and Russia's strikes on Ukraine have intensified. Separately, Trump told reporters on Tuesday that he plans to talk to Putin on a call this week or early next week. China and India are major buyers of Russian oil, which helps to keep the country's economy and war machine afloat. Last month, the US imposed a 50% tariff on goods from India, which included a 25% penalty for its transactions with Russia. Although the EU has said it would end its dependency on Russian energy, around 19% of its natural gas imports still come from there. If the EU does impose the tariffs on China and India it would mark a change to its approach of attempting to isolate Russia with sanctions rather than levies. Trump's request to the EU, first reported by the Financial Times, follows remarks from US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, who said Washington was prepared to escalate economic pressure but needed stronger European backing Ukraine's main government building in Kyiv was struck by a Russian missile over the weekend - in an attack that was seen as both symbolic and a major increase of aggression by the Kremlin. The strikes across the country marked the heaviest aerial bombardment on Ukraine since the war began. Ukraine said Russian forces used at least 810 drones and 13 missiles. On Tuesday, more than 20 civilians were killed by a Russian glide bomb in the eastern Donbas region, as they queued to collect their pensions. Trump said he was "not happy with the whole situation" and threatened harsher sanctions on the Kremlin. The US president has previously pledged harsher measures against Russia, but not taken any action despite Putin ignoring his deadlines and threats of sanctions. A highly anticipated summit between the leaders in Alaska last month ended without a peace deal. Trump also said on Tuesday that the US and India were "continuing negotiations to address the trade barriers" between the two countries. He plans to speak to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the coming weeks and expects a "successful conclusion" to their trade talks, he wrote on social media. In response, Modi echoed Trump's optimism that the talks would be successful and said the two countries were "close friends and natural partners." "Our teams are working to conclude these discussions at the earliest. I am also looking forward to speaking with President Trump," he added. Trump's comments have been seen by some as the latest sign of a reconciliation between Washington and Delhi, after a collapse in their trade negotiations. Last week, Trump emphasised the "special relationship" between India and the US, saying "there's nothing to worry about. We just have moments on occasion". Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Swimming coach Roman Melnik can't get out of Kyiv quick enough. The 22-year-old is packing his bags and heading to the Czech Republic to begin a new life. There, the physical education graduate hopes to pick up swimming classes to pay his way. Only once he's got some savings together will he then work on his long-held dream of making his way across the Atlantic to Florida or Texas. "All my family knows how much I always wanted to move to Europe and to the United States," he says, in his nearly bare flat in Ukraine's capital. Most of his belongings are in the suitcase already. There are just a few empty cups lying around – remnants of his farewell party at the weekend. "They're happy of course … [but] when I visited my parents there was a lot of crying." Until late August, Roman wasn't allowed to leave Ukraine at all. When Russia's full-scale invasion began in February 2022, martial law dictated that men between 18 and 60 – even those not eligible for conscription, which is currently in place for those aged between 25 and 60 – were not permitted to leave the country. President Volodymyr Zelensky has now announced that young men between the ages of 18 and 22 will no longer be barred from leaving. And those who want to return can do so freely, without the risk of being held at the border. "If we want to keep boys in Ukraine, we really need them to finish school here first and for their parents not to take them away," President Zelensky explained shortly after the announcement. "It is at this age, in their senior years, that they lose their connection with Ukraine." Nowhere is that loss of connection clearer than in Ukraine's colleges and universities. The buzz of the school corridor is far quieter now, with classroom sizes dwindling, especially in the final year – often families pull boys out of 12th grade and send them abroad just before they turn 18, meaning they miss high school graduation. There are fewer students enrolling at university too. The Kyiv School of Economics even has a "Come Back Home" initiative offering a grant that covers tuition fees and some living costs for those who left and now want to return. But Roman doesn't want to stay. And he doesn't have much time to waste before leaving either. He's turning 23 at the beginning of December. After that, the travel ban will apply. "I was feeling a bit trapped," he says. "I was ready to move that day [of the announcement], but mum convinced me to stay for a bit, so I could say goodbye to my grandparents, to my older sister, to all my friends again." When the full-scale invasion happened, Roman says Ukrainians rushed to defend their country against Russia. But now, more than three years on, with the war showing no signs of stopping and with people he knows who have died on the front line, that feeling of patriotism among his friends is waning. "I wouldn't choose to fight," he tells me. "I know that Russia attacked my country and I would kill for my country but only [if the army] takes you and says 'You're in the army." The UN estimates that as of February 2025, the war has created 6.7 million refugees. Another 3.7 million have been internally displaced. In all, Ukraine's population has dropped by 10 million people. Families fearing for their lives fled the country. While some have ventured back, especially to cities like Kyiv where Russian forces were driven out shortly after the fighting began, there's been a huge exodus. Not only that, but according to data from the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the number of Ukrainians who wanted to return home fell to 65% in 2024, down from 77% a year earlier. And the number of those who said they definitely wouldn't return rose from 5% to 11%. There's constant chatter of a manpower problem in Ukraine's military – how long will the war go on for, and will there be enough soldiers to defend the country? In April last year, Ukraine lowered the conscription age from 27 to 25. But still, it's not enough. Ukraine is under pressure, with the US reportedly urging President Zelensky to lower the conscription age to 18. In that now infamous meeting with Zelensky at the Oval Office last February, President Donald Trump accused Ukraine of "running low on soldiers". In a rare update last December, President Zelensky admitted that 43,000 soldiers had died since February 2022 – that number has obviously risen since. He said 370,000 soldiers had also been wounded. The manpower problem has been made worse by a low birthrate that began in the 1990s, following the collapse of the Soviet Union, and now exacerbated by the war. Ukraine's birth rate is the lowest in Europe. Earlier this year, the government offered a one-year contract for volunteers between the ages of 18-24 – before conscription age – complete with an attractive salary and other perks. But this decision to scrap the ban on 18-22-year-olds from travelling would appear to be encouraging people to leave. "Few expected that a large-scale invasion would last so long," says political analyst Yevhen Mahda, director of the Institute of World Policy in Kyiv. Still, he's not convinced by the new rules. "There is little logic and a lot of politics here," he says. Mr Mahda points to recent protests against the government dubbed the "cardboard revolution", so-called because of the cardboard signs carried by protesters angry about a government U-turn on an anti-corruption bill. "I would say that this is an attempt to give young people a valve to let off steam - so that they can at least have the illusion of a quick trip abroad," he says. The Ukrainian State Border Guard service said recently that 13,000 people had tried to flee the country illegally since the beginning of the year – some of them repeatedly. There are even men who pay smugglers to get them over the border. Denys Vetushko, a 24-year-old from Cherkasy in central Ukraine, feels very differently. "I am not going to hide from anyone," Denys says. "When the full-scale war began, I didn't have any thoughts that I needed to leave Ukraine." His family are Ukrainian Cossacks – a group renowned as warriors and pioneers of independence in Ukraine. That, he says, has helped define him. Denys returned to his hometown after February 2022 to start patrolling the streets and manning checkpoints. Now he works as a volunteer for Bon Ukraine, which donates military equipment for brigades on the front line. Of those who now want to leave, he's understanding. "I am not going to condemn anyone," says Denys. "People choose safety, they choose comfort." At the Shehyni border crossing in western Ukraine, young men are crossing into Poland, taking advantage of the new rules. "I visited all I could in Ukraine," says 22-year-old Mykhailo, who's in the queue. He was grateful that the government changed its position on letting young men leave. "When you are locked in, people will be even more scared to come back. If everything is open, people will come back." "I can see only advantages with this law," agrees 20-year-old fellow traveller Volodymyr.  "My brother is in America, he misses us a lot. He wants to come back." Additional reporting by Anastasiia Levchenko, Volodymyr Lozhko and Alba Morgade A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. BBC Verify examines recent damage to three key Russian oil export facilities near the Baltic Sea. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The man suspected of carrying out a deadly knife attack on a Ukrainian refugee in Charlotte, North Carolina, has been charged with a federal crime that makes him eligible for the death penalty. Decarlos Brown Jr, 34, was arrested and charged with first-degree murder over the unprovoked attack on 23-year-old Iryna Zarutska on a train last month. Her killing prompted a widespread debate over crime in American cities. On Tuesday, the justice department said Brown had also been charged with causing death on a mass transportation system. Attorney General Pamela Bondi said the department would seek the maximum penalty and he would "never again see the light of day as a free man". Graphic video of the killing, released on Friday, has fuelled outrage and reignited debate over US crime rates. "[Ms Zarutska's] horrific murder is a direct result of failed soft-on-crime policies that put criminals before innocent people," Bondi said on Tuesday. Federal prosecutors in North Carolina disputed accusations of "political grandstanding" during a media conference on Tuesday. "If mayors can't keep their trains and buses safe, they don't deserve the taxpayers' money," US Transportation Secretary Sean Duffy said in a statement. Ms Zarutska fled the war in Ukraine along with her mother and siblings in 2022, and her family wrote in an online obituary that she had "quickly embraced her new life in the United States" and was a "gifted and passionate artist". The attack was widely covered in Ms Zarutska's home country, where news outlets reported shock and sadness over the killing and noted the ongoing debate in the US. While crime rates in the US remain lower than their pandemic-era peaks, critics have seized on the case to highlight judicial release, and the amount of attention given to the slaying by a number of left-leaning media outlets. Republicans and conservative commentators questioned why Brown was free despite an extensive criminal history, which according to state records includes convictions for robbery with a dangerous weapon, larceny and breaking and entering. Other right-wing influencers alleged the crime was racially motivated and claimed that the suspect made a comment about the victim's race. The suspect is black and Zarutska was white, however authorities have not outlined a motive and Brown has not been charged with a hate crime. Brown was reportedly homeless and suffering from mental health issues, and his mother told a local TV station that she had sought to have him involuntarily committed to a psychiatric hospital after he became violent. In January he was arrested after repeatedly calling the 911 emergency hotline from a hospital, but was later released. The bustling city of Charlotte receives millions of dollars in federal transport funding - about $50m (£37m) in 2023 -  covering roughly 12% of its transit operating budget and more than half of its capital costs, according to the Federal Transit Administration. "I can't pull money today from their transit system, I actually have to do an investigation, that's what the law requires," Duffy told Fox News. "I guarantee all your viewers that if I find what I think I'm going to find, they are not going to have your public tax dollars going to their public transportation system. Zero, none, nada." In a statement, Charlotte Mayor Vi Lyles, a Democrat, said that there had been "a tragic failure by the courts and magistrates" and pledged increase patrols and police staffing on public transportation. A spokesperson for former Governor Roy Cooper, a Democrat, called the slaying "a heartbreaking, despicable act of evil" and told Politico that Republicans had supported cuts in funding to local and state law enforcement. The current Democratic governor of North Carolina, Josh Stein, said in a social media post: "We need more cops on the beat to keep people safe." With reporting by Anastasiia Levchenko in Kyiv The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine has shown reporters fragments of the missile it says hit a key government building in Kyiv this weekend, identifying it as a Russian Iskander cruise missile. Officials here now believe the building was struck deliberately in the early hours of Sunday morning. Vladimir Putin's response to Donald Trump's peace efforts has been a clear escalation in Russian attacks. But they don't only target the Ukrainian capital. In the eastern Donbas region, more than 20 civilians were killed by a Russian glide bomb on Tuesday as they queued to collect their pensions. Volodymyr Zelensky condemned the strike on the village of Yarova as "savage" and called once again on Ukraine's allies to increase the pressure on Moscow through sanctions. His office said some US and European weapons components are still reaching Russia, including for the Iskander missile. Moscow has already substituted the rest with its own production. "Strong actions are needed to make Russia stop bringing death," Ukraine's president wrote. Our team was filming on Sunday morning during the air raid on central Kyiv and captured the moment the cabinet of ministers was hit. The images appear to show a direct strike: a missile suddenly arcs downwards, right before the explosion. There is no indication of it being intercepted by air defences. When we were allowed into the vast, Soviet-era building to see the damage, the smell of burning intensified as we climbed towards the top floor. The roof and part of the walls in the damaged area have been blown apart and there's a gaping hole in the floor. All around, severed cables dangle from what remains of any ceiling. The missile - packed with more than 100kg (220lb) of explosives - did not detonate, so the damage is limited to three floors. But it's still significant. We saw fragments of that missile, now being collected as evidence: mangled metal pieces, some with Cyrillic lettering on them, gathered in a heap. Weapons experts we've consulted agree that it looks like a Russian cruise missile and say the damage is consistent with an Iskander striking but not exploding. "Sometimes fuses do not work and missiles just don't detonate. [It] can happen with a lot of different systems," Fabian Hinz, a missile and drone expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies in Berlin, told me. "I think it hit the building," military analyst Oleksandr Musiienko confirmed here in Kyiv. "This missile has a high speed and low altitude. It's really hard to see on the radar. And of course, we do not have still enough air defence systems like the [American] Patriots, for example, which we can use to shoot them down." In Kyiv, the increase in early morning attacks is obvious: they've grown more frequent - but most importantly they're bigger in scale. Russia now launches hundreds of drones at a time, deliberately draining Ukraine's resources. That's why Zelensky is constantly calling for more missiles: to someone far from Kyiv it might sound like he's stuck on repeat. But for people here it might be the difference between life and death. Russia's strikes are not only symbolic, on empty government buildings. They regularly hit people's homes, too, as we saw again this week. "Sometimes a lot of these drones are decoys - without explosives - just to weaken our air defence systems," Mr Musiienko explained. "We have never seen such attacks ever in our history. Of course, it's a threat." Closer to the front line, the tactics are different: deadly glide bombs arrive almost without warning. In Yarova, those killed this time were elderly. They're the people who are most reluctant or least able to leave their homes, even as the fighting moves close again. The village was occupied by the Russians at the start of the full-scale invasion in 2022, then liberated later by Ukrainian troops. At least 24 people who survived all that are now dead. Images from the scene show their bodies sprawled on the ground and a smashed-up post office van that had been delivering the pensions. It parked under a tree for cover, hoping not to be seen - but the bomb hit anyway. Ukraine's Foreign Minister Andrii Sybiha called it a "barbaric" strike by Russia and a "heinous crime" against the very people and region Putin claimed needed saving when he ordered the invasion. "We urge the world to speak out and act immediately," Sybiha said. But Ukraine wants more than condemnation. It's still calling for action against the Russian economy and the defence sector there. An adviser to President Zelensky, Vladyslav Vlasiuk, told me the sanctions imposed so far were making a difference. Ukrainian teams have been examining the remains of the missiles and drones launched by Russia since 2022, he said, and the percentage of Western-made components has shrunk. But it still hasn't been eliminated. "There are less Western parts, that is good," Mr Vlasiuk explained. "But the bad thing is that the number of Russian parts has increased which means Russia is producing things they couldn't do before, including microchips." Increased co-operation with China in producing the drones was also making them far harder to jam, he said. That may be what enabled Russia to hit the main government building in Kyiv for the first time - in the most tightly-guarded quarter of this city. "It's scary that they're hitting the centre," Alyona said on Tuesday, pushing her baby in a pram not far from the cabinet of ministers. "There have always been drones here," her husband added. "It's just they used to fly overhead, and now they can hit." A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Twenty-four people have been killed and 19 injured in a Russian air strike on a village in eastern Ukraine, local officials say. The victims were "ordinary civilians" collecting their pensions in Yarova, Donetsk region, said President Volodymyr Zelensky. Regional head Vadym Filashkin said emergency services were working at the scene, urging residents to "evacuate to safer regions". Yarova is to the north of Slovyansk, one of the big cities in the region, and only a few kilometres from the front line as Russian forces advance slowly in the east. If confirmed, the death toll would be among the heaviest attacks on Ukrainian civilians in recent weeks, 42 months into Russia's full-scale invasion. Twenty-three people were killed in overnight air strikes on Ukraine's capital Kyiv at the end of August. At the weekend Russia launched its biggest air assault of the war on Kyiv so far, hitting the main government building in the capital, in what Zelensky said was a "ruthless" attack aimed at prolonging the war. Posting graphic footage of the attack on Yarova online, Zelensky said there were "no words" to describe the latest Russian strikes. There was no immediate response from Russia's military. The head of the local administration in the nearby city of Lyman, Oleksandr Zhuravlyov, told Ukraine's public broadcaster Suspilne that the attack took place at about 10:40 local time (07:40 GMT) on Tuesday, as pensions were being handed out. He said most of the victims were elderly people. Ukrainian Interior Minister Ihor Klymenko later said Russia "dropped a guided air bomb" on the village. Pictures from the scene showed a badly damaged Ukrainian postal service vehicle of the type used to distribute pensions. The head of the Ukrposhta service said the vehicle had been parked under trees as a security measure and a local postal official had been wounded in the attack. "Maybe someone gave away the co-ordinates," he speculated. Yarova sits on a key railway line between the cities of Lyman and Izium. It is also only about 6km (3.7 miles) away from the next village of Novoselivka, where Russian forces are closing in on the outskirts. Zhuravlyov told Suspilne they had to work out how the postal service could continue to hand out pensions: "Because the front line is less than 10km away, we will 'move away' all these payments, so they can have their pensions in safer places." Local officials said 22 people had already been evacuated from the area. Ukraine's state emergency service DSNS said another three people had been killed in earlier Russian shelling of settlements in Donetsk. "The world must not remain silent," Zelensky said, calling for a response from both the US, Europe and the G20 group of nations. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Drones which will be used by the Ukrainian military are due to be built as part of a £200m investment in the UK, creating 500 jobs. Ukrspecsystems, described as the biggest drone manufacturing company in Ukraine, will use an existing building in Mildenhall, Suffolk, to produce the unmanned aircraft. There will also be a training and testing facility established at Elmsett Airfield, near Ipswich, with work on producing the drones starting early next year. The firm said the investment would mean "500 jobs directly and in the supply chain" and would include apprenticeships. Rory Chamberlain, Ukrspecsystems' managing director in the UK, said: "Ukrspecsystems is proud to be the first Ukrainian company to commit to a funded plan to invest in infrastructure, jobs and skills in the UK. "Our unmatched battle-winning technology and know-how, coupled with UK aviation and industrial expertise, will enable Ukrspecsystems to become the global leader in uncrewed systems in both the civil and military sectors, and establish the UK as a launch pad for export." The firm said it manufactures eight types of drone "that are used extensively in Ukraine" following the full-scale Russian invasion in 2022. Charles Course, owner of Elmsett Airfield, said: "We will be providing facilities for occasional testing and demonstration, in conjunction with the Army Air Corps at Wattisham Airfield. "We have to have their consent to do this, which we do. This announcement is great for employment and economic activity in East Anglia." Richard Smith, Suffolk County Council's cabinet member for finance, economic development and skills, said: "This is an exciting opportunity for our region, and a clear demonstration of the enormous potential East Anglia offers to ambitious and growing businesses. "With our strong business networks and record of championing enterprise and innovation, this area will provide an ideal location for Ukrspecsystems' expansion into the UK." Former defence procurement minister, Maria Eagle MP, welcomed the news of the drone-building facility before leaving the government last week and said the UK continued to "stand united with Ukraine", which remains at war with Russia. "By collaborating with Ukrainian companies like Ukrspecsystems, we will benefit from access to cutting-edge designs and innovative technologies, strengthening the UK's armed forces and those of our partners. "This £200m investment will also improve our industrial base and create up to 500 jobs, driving economic growth and prosperity around the country – core elements of our upcoming Defence Industrial Strategy." Follow Suffolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. People walked from Mildenhall FC, in Suffolk, to Cambridge United in Cambridge on Thursday. A charity offering a foodbank and furniture reuse service faces one of its "most challenging periods". The next hearing is due to take place at Basildon Crown Court in Essex. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump has threatened tougher sanctions against Russia after its heaviest aerial bombardment on Ukraine since the war began. Sunday's strikes killed four people, including a mother and her baby, and damaged Ukraine's main government building in Kyiv for the first time. The attack - which Ukraine said involved at least 810 drones and 13 missiles - has led to growing calls for stronger Western action against President Vladimir Putin. Kremlin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Monday that no sanctions would ever be able to force Russia to "change the consistent position that our president has repeatedly spoken about". Speaking to reporters after the bombardment, the US president said he was "not happy with the whole situation." Trump has previously threatened harsher measures against Russia, but not taken any action when Putin ignored his deadlines and threats of sanctions. Asked on on Sunday if he was prepared to move to the "second phase" of punishing Moscow, Trump replied: "Yeah, I am," though gave no details. The threat follows remarks from US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent, who said Washington was prepared to escalate economic pressure but needed stronger European backing. In an interview with NBC, Bessent said that, if EU nations increased sanctions and secondary tariffs on countries which buy Russian oil, "the Russian economy will be in total collapse, and that will bring President Putin to the table". He added: "We are in a race now between how long can the Ukrainian military hold up, versus how long can the Russian economy hold up." So far, Washington's most aggressive measure has been a 50% tariff on imports from India, imposed last month in response to Delhi's continued purchases of Russian oil. Trump has floated the idea of extending such secondary sanctions to other countries, but has yet to follow through. European leaders are expected to travel to Washington early this week to discuss ways of ending the war, Trump has said "Certain European leaders are coming over to our country on Monday or Tuesday individually," Trump said, without specifying which leaders. He also signalled that he would speak with Putin in the next couple of days. In an interview with ABC News, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelensky urged European nations to fully stop buying Russian energy. He said: "We have to stop [buying] any kind of energy from Russia, and by the way, anything, any deals with Russia. We can't have any deals if we want to stop them." He praised Trump's tariff strategy as "the right idea" to cut off Moscow's revenues. Since its full-scale invasion of Ukraine in March 2022, Russia has earned around $985bn (£729bn) of oil and gas, according to the think tank the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air. China and India have been the largest buyers, while the EU has significantly reduced - but not entirely halted - purchases. Brussels has pledged to phase out all Russian energy imports by 2027. Despite mounting sanctions, Russia is working to expand its markets. At a meeting in Beijing last week, Moscow said it would increase supplies of gas to China. Meanwhile, OPEC+, the group of oil-producing nations that includes Russia, has agreed to boost production, a move that could drive down global oil prices and complicate Western efforts to squeeze Moscow's finances. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A man has been charged with murder after a seven-month-old baby died after being shot while sitting in her pushchair in New York. Amuri Greene, 21, has been charged with three counts of murder and one of attempted murder after police accused him of fatally shooting Kaori Patterson-Moore on 1 April. Greene appeared in court on Friday where he pleaded not guilty, according to CBS News, the BBC's US partner. Officers believe the baby was the unintended victim of a gang-related shooting. Police said a second suspect, Matthew Rodriguez, 18, had been arrested in connection with the shooting in Pennsylvania and charges were pending. Footage from the incident appears to show two men on a motorcycle riding against the flow of traffic through the Williamsburg neighbourhood of Brooklyn, before a man on the back of the vehicle took out a gun and fired, police said. Officers believe Greene carried out the shooting and was on the back of the scooter, CBS reported. He was thrown from the vehicle following the incident and was taken to hospital for treatment where he was placed in police custody. Greene also pleaded not guilty to charges of five counts of criminal possession of a weapon, two counts of attempted criminal possession of a weapon, and two counts of assault, CBS reported. Rodriguez is believed to be the man seen driving the scooter the gunman was on during the shooting. The driver crashed into oncoming traffic after the gunfire and fled, police said. Family and friends gathered on Friday night for a candlelight vigil at the corner where the shooting took place. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Early reports indicate that the pilot of a US F-15 fighter aircraft downed over Iran was rescued - which, if confirmed, would be the latest in the long history of US combat search-and-rescue missions over decades. The search operation is ongoing deep inside Iran for a second crew member, according to CBS, the BBC's US partner. Combat search and rescue (CSAR) missions are considered among the most complex, time-sensitive operations that US and allied militaries prepare for. In the US, elite units of the air force are specially trained for CSAR missions and are often pre-emptively deployed near conflict areas where aircraft could be lost. Put simply, CSAR missions are military operations aimed at finding, aiding and potentially rescuing personnel in need, including downed pilots and isolated troops. In contrast to conventional search-and-rescue efforts - which could take place during humanitarian operations or after disasters - CSAR missions occur in hostile or contested environments. In some cases - as in Friday's reported recovery effort in Iran - the operations may happen deep in enemy territory. CSAR missions are often conducted by helicopters, with refuelling aircraft in support and other military aircraft on hand to conduct strikes and patrol the area. A former commander of a pararescue jumpers squadron told CBS News that a rescue operation like the reported one in Iran would involve at least 24 pararescue jumpers scouring the area in Black Hawk helicopters. They added the team would be prepared to jump from planes if needed, and once on the ground their priority would be to contact the missing crew member. Upon locating them, the pararescue jumpers would deliver medical aid if necessary, evade the enemy and get to a place where they can be rescued, according to CBS News. "Harrowing and massively dangerous is an understatement," the former commander told CBS News. They added: "This is what they train to do, all over the world. They are known as the Swiss Army knives of the Air Force." Verified video that emerged from Iran on Friday appeared to show US military helicopters and at least one refuelling aircraft operating over Iran's Khuzestan province. The missions are extremely time-sensitive, as enemy forces would likely be deployed in the same area to try and locate the same US personnel the CSAR teams are trying to rescue. Iranian officials have urged citizens to find the missing US crew member alive and are offering rewards for their capture, according to state media. Speaking to the BBC Radio 4 's Today programme, Laurel Rapp, director of the US and North America programme at Chatham House said that capturing the crew member would be a "huge prize" for Iran and would offer them a "very powerful bargaining chip". Former US Marine Corps Special Operations specialist Jonathan Hackett told the BBC's World Tonight programme that a US rescue team's priority would be to look for signs of life. "They're trying to work backwards from the last point they knew that person was, and fan out based on the speed that person could move under different circumstances in this really difficult terrain," Hackett said. Hackett said this type of reported rescue would be a "non-standard assisted recovery mission", where indigenous groups in the area could have been previously contacted with the aim of creating contingency plans that could be activated to help with any rescues. Airborne, wartime rescue missions have a long history, dating back to World War One pilots conducting impromptu landings in France to rescue downed colleagues. The US military's pararescue units trace their lineage back to a 1943 mission in which two combat surgeons parachuted into then-Burma - now Myanmar - to help wounded soldiers. The world's first helicopter rescue took place a year later, when a US lieutenant rescued four soldiers from behind Japanese lines, according to Smithsonian's Air & Space Magazine. The incident also marked the first operational use of a helicopter in combat. Formal search-and rescue units were first established in the US in the immediate aftermath of the conflict. But modern CSAR began during the Vietnam War. One mission, known as Bat 21, led to the loss of several aircraft and multiple US casualties while attempting to recover the pilot of an aircraft shot down behind North Vietnamese lines. The war required a vast expansion of CSAR missions with increased scope and complexity. The experience helped the military refine tactics and procedures that have helped form the foundation of rescue operations since. While each US military branch has their own limited CSAR capabilities, the US Air Force has the primary responsibility for finding and rescuing military personnel. This work is primarily conducted by what are known as pararescue jumpers, part of the military's broader special-operations community. The official pararescue motto is "These Things We Do, That Others May Live", and their work is considered part of a broader promise to US service members that they will not be left behind. These personnel are highly trained as both combatants and paramedics, and go through what is widely considered one of the hardest selection and training pipelines in the US military. The selection-and-training process - which takes approximately two years from start to finish - includes parachute and dive training, as well as basic underwater demolition, survival, resistance and escape training, and a full civilian paramedic course. They also received specialised courses in battlefield medicine, complex recovery operations and weapons. On the ground, these teams are led by specialised Combat Rescue Officers, who are responsible for planning, co-ordinating and executing the recovery missions. Pararescue teams deployed extensively throughout the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, conducting thousands of missions to rescue US and allied troops that were wounded or required extraction. In 2005, air force pararescue teams were involved to recover a US Navy Seal who was wounded and seeking shelter in an Afghan village after his team was ambushed and its other three members killed - an incident later made into the film Lone Survivor. Missions to recover downed US pilots have been rare in recent decades. In 1999, the pilot of an F-117 stealth fighter shot down over Serbia was found and recovered by pararescuemen. In a highly publicised incident in Bosnia in 1995, US pilot Scott O'Grady was rescued in a joint air force and Marine Corps CSAR mission after being shot down and evading capture for six days. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The leaders of 23 Democratic-run US states have sued to block new mail-in voting restrictions that were issued in an executive order signed by US President Donald Trump earlier this week. The lawsuit argues that the president does not have the constitutional right to interfere with elections, which are run by state governments. The new rules "transgress Plaintiff States' constitutional power to prescribe the time, place, and manner of federal elections" and attempt to "amend and dictate election law by fiat based on the President's whims", according to the lawsuit. The US Constitution gives oversight of federal elections to the states, while Congress has the ability to make changes. Trump has promoted claims without evidence of widespread voter fraud through mail-in voting. He said he recently voted by mail in Florida because he is the US president. His son and wife have also voted by mail in recent elections. Trump's order, signed on Tuesday, calls for the government to compile a list of all citizens who are eligible to vote. It also directs the US Postal Service to "transmit ballots only to individuals enrolled on a State-specific Mail-in and Absentee Participation List, ensuring that only eligible absentee or mail-in voters receive absentee or mail-in ballots". New York Attorney General Letitia ​James, one of the Democrats involved in the lawsuit, said in a statement: "Free ​and fair elections are the cornerstone of our democracy, and no president has ⁠the power to rewrite the rules on his own." Legal experts say they are doubtful that Trump has the authority to make such sweeping changes to how states run their elections. The new rules are unlikely to take effect before November's midterm elections, when the balance of power in the US Congress is up for grabs. Judges have already blocked a different Trump executive order on elections that threatened to withhold election funding from certain states that don't follow the president's orders. The newest executive order comes as Trump has been pushing Congress to pass the SAVE America Act, which would overhaul US voting rules by requiring proof of US citizenship to vote. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Rapper Gucci Mane was allegedly kidnapped at gunpoint in Dallas earlier this year, leading to the arrests of eight men, including a fellow artist signed to his label, officials say. Prosecutors allege rapper Pooh Shiesty, born Lontrell Williams Jr, led the ambush under the guise of a meeting, holding Mane captive inside a recording studio and forcing him to sign papers releasing him from his contract. Mane is an Atlanta-based artist who has collaborated with Usher, Doja Cat, Drake and other stars. He founded his label, 1017 Records, in 2007 and Williams Jr  signed as an artist in 2020. The defendants, who are yet to enter their pleas, could face life in prison if convicted. Eight of the nine defendants were arrested on Wednesday in Dallas, Memphis and Nashville, and charged in federal court with kidnapping and armed robbery. One suspect remains at large, and investigators are working with authorities in the state of Georgia to locate him, US Attorney Ryan Raybould told a news conference on Thursday. The incident took place on 10 January, a federal complaint says, when Williams Jr was supposed to be under house arrest for a previous firearms conspiracy conviction. He was allegedly joined by eight co-defendants, including his father, Lontrell Williams Sr, all of whom are accused of participating in the crime. A sworn statement from the FBI says Williams Jr pointed a "black AK-style pistol" at Mane and forced him to sign the papers. He also allegedly stole Mane's wedding ring, watch, earrings and cash. The other suspects allegedly brandished pistols as well, demanding property from additional victims in the room, identified in the complaint only by initials. One of the victims was choked and injured, and had his Rolex watch, Louis Vuitton bag, AirPods and wallet stolen from him, according to the complaint. "Within hours of leaving the Dallas studio, a number of the defendants were on social media displaying some of the items that appeared to be the jewellery that had been robbed from the victims," Raybould said. Prosecutors say the rapper and the other victims believed "they were going to be executed" before the defendants ordered them to leave the building and go to their cars. Representatives for Williams Jr and Mane did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Police have warned people to protect their heating oil tanks after hundreds of litres were stolen from two homes in Norfolk. A tank in Fakenham was targeted on 26 March, with 200 litres of oil taken, and approximately 600 litres was stolen from a tank in Hickling on Tuesday. Norfolk Police is investigating and says it is putting out a reminder of its safety advice, given that oil prices continue to rise. "Thieves can syphon fuel from tanks within minutes and a tank that isn't properly protected can be an easy target," it added. It recommends hiding tanks, fitting them with a padlock or lockable cap, securing them in a cage and installing lockable gates, security lights and a camera. An electronic gauge fitted to the tank would activate an alarm when the oil level drops, police added. Some heating oil customers say their costs have doubled since the outbreak of the US-Israel war with Iran. Last week, the county council announced it had £3m from the government's Crisis and Resilience Fund to support low-income residents who would otherwise be left without oil. It said Norfolk had one of the largest numbers of oil-heated homes, with about 70,000 households reliant on the fuel for heating and hot water. Do you have a story suggestion for Norfolk? Contact us below. Follow Norfolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". The average price at the pump has topped $4 in the US for the first time since 2022 as the Iran war continues to push up fuel prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
In March UK petrol and diesel prices jumped more than in any previous single month, the RAC has said. Higher wholesale energy prices due to the US-Israel war with Iran have led to a record monthly rise in pence per litre of fuel, the motoring organisation said. A 20p rise in the cost of petrol and a 40p increase in diesel in the month since the conflict began has made filling the tank much more expensive. The fuel price rises followed sharp increases in the price of crude oil after the conflict disrupted production and transportation through the Strait of Hormuz. Crude oil is a key ingredient in petrol and diesel, meaning higher wholesale costs make filling up a car more expensive. Since the war began, the price of a barrel of Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil prices, has been very volatile jumping from $73 (£55) to over $110 before falling back to just over $100 a barrel by the end of March. Analysts say every $10 increase in the oil price pushes up pump prices by roughly 7p a litre. There is normally a time lag, with movements in oil markets taking about a fortnight to impact fuel prices. A month after the start of the conflict filling a typical family car with petrol has gone up by over £11. A tank of diesel is around £22 more than before the conflict. But despite the sharp increases fuel prices remain below peaks reached in summer 2022 following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Then petrol reached 191.5p and diesel hit 199p a litre. According to RAC data on 2 April, the average petrol price is 154.4p a litre. There have been accusations that fuel retailers may have been price gouging, but they have denied this. The official markets regulator is investigating the issue. The UK is heavily reliant on oil and gas imports, with the lion's share of those imports coming from the US and Norway. The price of oil on the global market determines how much the UK pays for it. Though the UK does get oil from the North Sea, most of that is exported for refining elsewhere. The boss of oil giant Shell has said that there could be a fuel shortage in Europe within weeks due to blockages in the Strait of Hormuz. The comments come after the International Energy Agency (IEA) suggested a list of measures to reduce energy and fuel use in response to the conflict, including working from home and carpooling. However, the UK government and the Fuels Industry UK has described Britain's fuel supplies as "resilient". Fuels Industry UK said Britons can continue to buy fuels as normal. Oil makes up 35% of the UK's total energy supply, according to the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero. As a member of the IEA, it must hold 90 days' worth of net oil imports, but it currently holds more than this. Some have said that restrictions on new drilling licences in the North Sea should be eased to limit price rises for households, but others have said this is unlikely to significantly reduce energy prices for the public. More expensive petrol and diesel increases the transport costs for businesses moving products around the country, which can get passed on by shops and supermarkets to the consumer. In addition, some elements of crude oil are used in fertiliser, meaning  there could be a cost implication in terms of food prices," Benjamin Godwin, partner at investment advisory firm PRISM Strategic Intelligence, told the BBC. However, if the conflict is short-lived then it is unlikely to result in an immediate increase in food prices, he said. In the short term, millions of UK householders' domestic gas and electricity bills are shielded from any impact on wholesale costs paid by suppliers. People whose energy bills are governed by the price cap already know what their unit prices are now, and will be for the three months from April. That price has already been set. However, depending on how long the conflict lasts, there could be an impact on prices when the next price cap is set, for the three months from July. Anyone who has fixed their energy tariff already will not see a price rise, but suppliers have started reconsidering what they are willing to offer for those fixed-price deals, and have been pulling cheaper deals off the market. Heating oil is used by many households in Northern Ireland, and in some rural areas. The prices do fluctuate more directly in response to the oil price, so the latest global uncertainty has pushed up costs for those households refilling their tanks. The prime minister has announced a £53m support package to help those hit by the sharp increase in heating oil. UK inflation, which measures the pace of price rises, has eased relative to the heights reached immediately after Russia launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine four years ago, and was expected to keep falling this year. Interest rates, which are used by the Bank of England to keep inflation close to its  2% target, were expected to continue on a steady downward trend this year as a result. But if higher energy costs push up prices more broadly, inflation will not fall, or not as fast as was hoped. That throws any interest rate cuts into question, at least for the time being. As a result mortgage lenders, who base the rates they offer on what they expect the Bank of England to do with interest rates, have started to increase their own lending rates. Anyone remortgaging or taking out their first mortgage is likely to face slightly higher rates than they would have before this week's events. Additional reporting by Emer Moreau, Kevin Peachey, and Dearbail Jordan You can also send us your questions by following this link Get our flagship newsletter with all the headlines you need to start the day. Sign up here. The new rules will be introduced in October and are described as the most significant reform of driver licensing for 70 years. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Oil prices briefly fell below $100 a barrel and shares opened higher in Europe on Wednesday after President Donald Trump said the US will leave Iran in "two to three weeks" regardless of whether a deal is struck with Tehran. Brent crude ticked down to $98.65 before inching back up to $101 following Trump's pledge and ahead of a speech this evening when he will "provide an important update on Iran". In the UK, the FTSE 100 index rose 1.3%. In Germany, the Dax traded 2.1% higher and France's Cac added 1.8%. Since the US-Israel war with Iran, oil and gas prices have soared after Tehran threatened to attack vessels using the Strait of Hormuz, effectively shutting the key shipping route. On Wednesday, QatarEnergy said a fuel oil tanker the company leased had been "the subject of a missile attack" in the early hours of the morning. It said none of the crew members on board had been injured and there is no impact on the environment as a result of this incident. Qatar's Ministry of Defence said Iran had fired three cruise missiles, two of which were intercepted while the third hit the tanker. Speaking from the Oval Office on Tuesday, Trump said Iran is "begging to make a deal" but whether it happens or not is "irrelevant" to America's timetable. Earlier, Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian said his country has the "necessary will" to put an end to the war but demanded certain guarantees to prevent the recurrence of any future aggression. Shares had also jumped in Asia. Japan's Nikkei 225 index closed 5.2% higher, while the Kospi in South Korea ended up 8.4%. Japan and South Korea have been hit particularly hard by the conflict as they are heavily reliant on energy from the Middle East. Financial markets in both countries swung sharply in recent weeks as investors react to developments in the war. Oil prices have surged as much as 64% in March - when they reached nearly $120 a barrel -  in the biggest monthly gain since 1990 when Iraq's invasion of Kuwait took both countries' oil off the market, resulting in an energy supply shock, said Nicolas Daher from the Economist Intelligence Unit. The latest spike in prices has been driven by expectations that the conflict will continue until at least the end of April, Daher said. Oil refiners are also bidding more aggressively for crude as they try to boost production as markets around the world are hit by shortages of jet fuel and diesel, said Ole Hansen from Saxo Bank. The fighting has continued in the Middle East. Lebanon's capital Beirut was hit on Tuesday by airstrikes, with Israel's military saying it was targeting a senior Hezbollah figures. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The global benchmark Brent crude oil price briefly hit $119 (£90) per barrel on Tuesday, close to its highest since the start of the US-Israel war with Iran. Responding to the US-Israel air strikes which began on 28 February, Iran has effectively blocked the Strait of Hormuz, a key passage for ships carrying oil. Wholesale oil prices have surged since and car fuel prices have jumped to their highest in years. Countries are responding differently to rising oil prices, with Australia making bus travel free while Egypt asks shops, restaurants, and cafes to close early to cut energy use. The global benchmark oil price is a contract to buy a barrel Brent crude one month from now. Its price pushes up the price of car fuel in turn, as oil is a key ingredient. In the US, petrol prices at the pump topped $4 a gallon for the first time in nearly four years, according to the AAA motoring organisation. In the UK, petrol has hit 152.8p a litre, its highest in two years and around 20p more than the start of the war, according to the RAC motoring organisation. The average diesel price rose to 182.77p, its highest level since December 2022 and 40p more than at the start of the war. RAC's head of policy Simon Williams said the price of petrol could stabilise "if the cost of oil doesn't increase further, although diesel still looks likely to rise". Average energy bills in the UK are also forecast to rise an average of £288 a year from July for a typical dual-fuel household. Airlines meanwhile have also been affected, as the price of jet fuel surges. The last shipment of jet fuel in transit from the Middle East to the UK is due to arrive this week, according to data firm Vortexa. The shipment, first reported by the Financial Times, is due to arrive on Thursday or Friday. "In 2025 there were an average of eight cargoes en route from the Middle East to the UK at any one time, so having none en route is quite unusual," said Mick Strautmann, market analyst at Vortexa. A UK government spokesperson said jet fuel shipments are continuing to arrive in the country. "The UK receives imports of jet fuel from India, USA and the Netherlands as well as smaller amounts from a range of other countries," the spokesperson added. However, Strautmann said while India has historically been a jet fuel supplier to the UK, "they are prioritising exports to Southeast Asia at the moment given very high prices and shorter distances". "There have been some loads from West Africa, the US and to a smaller extent Netherlands and France heading to the UK, but overall volumes do not make up for the loss from the Middle East," he said. George Shaw, senior insight analyst at Kpler, said the shipment arriving this week was loaded at a refinery in the Red Sea and did not pass the Strait of Hormuz. "The last of the vessels that loaded jet fuel and passed the Strait of Hormuz will discharge into Europe this week," he said. Among European airlines, Air France-KLM has said it plans to increase long-haul fares to counter higher fuel costs, while Scandinavian carrier SAS has raised prices and said it will cut 1,000 flights in April. British Airways owner IAG has said it has no immediate plans to lift prices as it has hedged its fuel costs with contracts to buy fuel at a price fixed before the conflict began. EasyJet has said ticket prices might rise towards the end of summer when its hedging deals expire. A spokesperson for Airlines UK said: "UK airlines are currently not seeing disruption to jet fuel supply and continue to engage with fuel suppliers and government to monitor the situation." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A US federal panel has voted to exempt oil and gas drilling in the Gulf of Mexico  from a decades-old law to protect endangered species. A vote by a committee known as the "God Squad" - because of its ability to influence the future of certain species - followed a request by Pete Hegseth, US secretary of defence. Speaking on Tuesday, Hegseth said "recent hostile action" by the Iranian government illustrated why securing more domestic oil production was important for the country's national security. Environmental groups tried to sue to stop the vote, claiming it could push some species like the Rice's Whale into extinction - only 51 remain in the wild. The Endangered Species Act was passed in 1973 to protect the most at risk animals and plants in the US from the impacts of development. It includes measures such as banning activities in certain areas where species could be harmed or killed, like dam construction. But the Endangered Species Committee has the power to bypass the law in the interest of national security or when there are no other alternatives to a project. A few weeks ago, Hegseth wrote to the committee asking for an exemption for oil and gas drilling in the Gulf. He said although the request was made before the war with Iran started, it illustrated why securing national oil supplies was so important. "The Strait of Hormuz is the world's busiest oil route and recent hostile action by the Iranian terror regime highlights yet again why robust domestic oil production is a national security imperative," he told the committee on Tuesday. Iran effectively closed off the Strait, one of the world's busiest oil shipping channels, after the US and Israel attacked Iran on 28 February. The average price of gas at the pump has now topped $4 in the US for the first time in nearly four years. On Tuesday, the 'God squad' voted unanimously to approve the exemption - only the third time in it's 53-year history. The decision was met with strong condemnation from environmental groups who said it will likely drive the Rice's Whale to extinction. The whale is only known to live in the Gulf of Mexico, and its population dropped by more than 20% to only a few  following the Deepwater Horizon spill, according to the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). "Americans overwhelmingly oppose sacrificing endangered whales and other marine life so the fossil fuel industry can get richer," said Brett Hartl, government affairs director at environmental charity Centre for Biological Diversity. The Gulf of Mexico is home to at least 19 other threatened and endangered species including various types of turtles, the giant manta ray and mountainous star coral. Speaking at the meeting Hegseth said that litigation by environmental groups had hampered oil and gas activity, and instead this exemption would allow the "integration of oil and gas production with responsible endangered species protection". In 2025, the National Marine Fisheries Service concluded oil and gas activities in the Gulf of Mexico would lead to the Rice's whale's extinction and recommended precautionary measures such as reducing vessel speeds. These measures will no longer apply. Andrea Wood, spokesperson for the trade body American Petroleum Institute, said: "Our industry has a long track record of protecting wildlife while developing offshore energy responsibly." She added that there needed to be balance between "science-based protections while meeting growing energy demand". But environmental groups already said they will take further legal action to prevent the exemption going ahead. Sign up for our Future Earth newsletter to get exclusive insight on the latest climate and environment news from the BBC's Climate Editor Justin Rowlatt, delivered to your inbox every week. Outside the UK? Sign up to our international newsletter here. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Bottles and cans are exchanged for a printed ticket that can be swapped for rewards. Merthyr South Wales Ltd sparked anger after submitting a new - and cheaper - restoration plan. An island colony whose koalas are free of chlamydia could help save the wider population from the deadly disease. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Global oil prices jumped and stocks fell sharply on Monday in Asia after the US-Israel war with Iran entered its fifth week. The price of Brent crude rose overnight by more than 3% to above $115 (£86.77) a barrel. It later eased slightly to around $113 but is still on track for its biggest monthly gain on record. Japan's Nikkei 225 lost 2.8%, and the Kospi in South Korea closed almost 3% lower. It comes after Iran-backed Houthi rebels in Yemen joined the conflict by striking Israel over the weekend and Iran threatened to expand retaliatory strikes against universities and the homes of US and Israeli officials. US President Donald Trump said in an interview with the Financial Times on Sunday that he could "take the oil in Iran" and possibly seize its major fuel hub of Kharg Island. When asked about Iranian defence on the island he said: "I don't think they have any defence. We could take it very easily." Trump compared the potential move to Venezuela where the US plans to control the oil industry "indefinitely" after the seizure in January of then-President Nicolás Maduro. Also over the weekend, Iran's parliament speaker warned that his country's forces were "waiting for American soldiers" as a further 3,500 US troops arrived in the Middle East. Global energy markets have been hugely volatile after Tehran retaliated to US and Israeli strikes by threatening to attack ships that try to cross the Strait of Hormuz. Lars Jensen, a shipping expert and former director at Maersk, warned that, even if the Strait of Hormuz "magically were to open tomorrow", there were still further price rises to come. "We need to keep in mind that a lot of the oil that was loaded in the Persian gulf prior to this crisis is only now arriving in refineries," he told the BBC. Overall, Jensen said the impact of the US-Israeli war on Iran could be "substantially larger" than the oil crisis of the 1970s, which sparked economic chaos. And Jensen, who now runs the shipping consultancy Vespucci Maritime, also warned of the impact of the conflict on food prices. He added: "You've got 20 to 30% of the seaborne fertiliser in the world originating from the Gulf. "This will mean rapidly escalating food prices, especially in poorer countries." Judith McKenzie, a partner at investment firm Downing, said the full impact of the war is yet to make its way through the fuel supply chain to hit consumers. "Oil shocks don't show up instantly," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "If we can get some resolution in the Gulf this week then, although it's going to take a little bit of time to unwind and we will see inflation, it is fixable." Around a fifth of the world's oil and gas supply usually passes through the narrow waterway but this has largely come to a standstill, pushing up prices. Energy markets expert Sean Foley from Macquarie University said he expected oil prices to rise further unless the conflict eases. The Houthi strikes have raised concerns that the armed group could stop energy shipments passing through Bab al-Mandeb strait near Yemen, Foley said. A blockade of the waterway could hit a further 10% of world's oil supply, "putting significant strain on global supply chains", Foley said. Andrew Lipow from consulting firm Lipow Oil Associates said he expected the price of Brent to reach $130 a barrel in the coming weeks as threats against the global energy supply continue. "My greatest fear is that you have a general economic slowdown around the world... because consumers simply run out of money as they're spending more on energy and, in addition, food," he said. The price of Brent was at around $72 a barrel on 27 February, the day before the US and Israel struck Iran. On 18 March, the benchmark oil contract hit $119.50, the highest level since June 2022. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The month-long closure of a crucial waterway for the global energy supply has sparked warnings the world is heading for problems worse than those caused by the 1970s oil crisis. Lars Jensen, a shipping expert and former director at Maersk, told the BBC the impact of the US-Israeli war on Iran could be "substantially larger" than the economic chaos seen in the 1970s. His comments follow a warning from the director of the International Energy Agency, Fatih Birol, earlier this month that the world is "facing the greatest global energy security threat in history". "It is much bigger than what we had in the 1970s, the oil price shocks. It is also bigger than the natural gas price shock we have experienced after the Russia's invasion of Ukraine," he told the BBC. But while the closure of the Strait of Hormuz is disruptive to global supplies, others argue the world today is more resilient. The 1970s oil crisis was "fundamentally different" from today's, as the first oil shock back then was "the result of a deliberate policy decision", economist Dr Carol Nakhle, who is also the chief executive of Crystol Energy, told the BBC. In October 1973, Arab oil producers placed an embargo on a group of countries led by the US over their support for Israel during the Yom Kippur war. That policy came alongside a co-ordinated cut to oil production. "The result was a near quadrupling of oil prices within a few months," Nakhle said. This led to fuel rationing in major oil-consuming countries, and Nakhle said it triggered a "global economic and financial crisis" with lasting implications. Dr Tiarnán Heaney, a researcher at Queen's University Belfast, said high oil prices fuelled inflation across the board, "meaning businesses cut back further and unemployment soared". "This had massive knock-on effects that damaged the social fabric of many countries with widespread strikes, unrest, and increases in poverty as many households struggled to make ends meet," he said. Both the US and UK had recessions that lasted from 1973 to 1975, with the crisis contributing to the downfall of Ted Heath's Conservative government in 1974. A second oil shock came in 1979, with the Iranian Revolution. Since the US and Israel launched their war with Iran a month ago, the narrow Strait of Hormuz has effectively been shut to shipping traffic. That has disrupted the flow of oil, gas and other essentials from the Gulf states, which normally export about a fifth of the world's oil. US President Donald Trump has tried various tactics to get Gulf oil flowing again, including calling on allied nations to send warships as escorts, and threatening to hit Iran harder if it does not let ships pass safely through the strait. But Jensen, who now runs the consultancy Vespucci Maritime, told the BBC's Today programme much of the oil that had left the Gulf more than a month ago was still arriving at refineries around the world, and that flow would soon stop. "So the oil shortages we've been seeing, they're only going to get worse, even if magically the Strait of Hormuz would re-open tomorrow," he said. "We will face massive energy costs, not just while this crisis goes on but also for six to 12 months after it's over." Nakhle, who is also the secretary general of the Arab Energy Club, said the oil market is more diverse than in the 1970s, while the overall amount being used relative to the size of the global economy has also dropped significantly. She believes that while current prices are high, today's crisis is not as severe. "While the volumetric disruptions we are seeing are significant - arguably among the largest in recent history - the market is far more resilient than in the 1970s," she said. "It is more diversified, less oil-intensive, and better equipped with buffers and emergency response mechanisms." Heaney said there were some differences today that work in the world's favour, including better understanding of our economies and more countries holding oil reserves. "The best-case scenario is to end this conflict as quickly as possible and restore some semblance of stability." Alicia Garcia Herrero, chief economist for Asia Pacific at Natixis CIB, said while 1970s oil shocks sent prices sky high, they only cut global supply by 5-7%. In contrast, the current crisis affects 20% of the world's supplies, "dwarfing the 1970s shock", she said. "Today's Iran war crisis can end up being a bigger shock if the situation does not improve soon," she said, adding it was also a crisis of gas supply and other refined products. "The fallout of this is that we could experience sharper price spikes, broader inflation pain, and deeper recession risks, especially in import-heavy Asia," she continued. "Reserves and efficiency offer some buffer which the episodes in the 1970s lacked, but the raw scale of lost supply makes this nastier, with no fast fix in sight." You can also get in touch by following this link The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The war in Iran and the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz - through which around 20% of the world's oil and natural gas flows - has seen fuel costs rise sharply in the past month. With the disruption expected to have a lasting impact on prices, governments around the world have begun introducing measures to limit the impact on consumers and the economy. Here is a rundown of what's been introduced so far. While most of the UK's electricity is generated through natural gas and renewables, petrol prices have reached an 18-month high due to rising global oil prices, according to motoring organisation the RAC. The government has said it is primed to step in if there are signs petrol sellers are profiteering from the crisis - something the Petrol Retailers Association has denied is the case. Meanwhile, low-income households that use heating oil will be eligible to access a £53m package announced by the prime minister in March to help with costs. China, the world's largest buyer of oil, has long braced for a supply shock in the Gulf by stockpiling oil. Over the years, Beijing has taken advantage of lower crude prices and an abundance of supply from Gulf states to build one of the world's largest oil reserves - 900 million barrels, according to some estimates, though this is only amounts to around three months of its imports. And to keep domestic prices under control, authorities in China have reportedly ordered its oil refineries to stop exporting fuel for the time being. India's oil ministry said on 26 March that it had secured supplies of crude oil for the coming 60 days and urged residents to avoid panic buying. Nearly half of India's crude imports - along with a large share of its liquefied natural and petroleum gas shipments - normally pass through the Strait of Hormuz. But the ministry said the "high volumes" of crude oil available "in international markets" had "more than compensated for any disruption". Taxes on petrol and diesel were cut as part of several measures introduced by the government to reduce energy costs. Under the €235m (£203m) package, the suspension of the National Oil Reserves Agency (NORA) levy will also reduce the price of home-heating oil. The measures also include a VAT-inclusive cut in excise on green diesel, while heating payments to social welfare recipients will be extended for four weeks. In two Australian states, public transport will be made free in order to incentivise people not to drive. Travel on Victoria's trains, trams and buses will be free from Tuesday and throughout April, while commuters in Tasmania will not need to pay for buses, coaches and ferries from Monday until the end of June. Tasmania's transport minister also said that paid-for school buses would be made free, saving those who use them A$20 (£10.40) a week. The price of petrol has risen sharply in Australia since the conflict in the Middle East began, with the national average at A$2.38 a litre on 22 March, up from around A$2.09 at the start of the war, according to figures from the Australian Institute of Petroleum. Egypt - which relies heavily on imported oil - has introduced a raft of temporary measures aimed at bringing fuel consumption down and keeping public finances in check. Shops, restaurants and cafes have been told to close at 21:00 each night for the next month, while street lights and roadside advertising is being dimmed. Hotels and tourist attractions are exempt. Non-essential workers have been told to work from home one day a week to lower the number of commutes. The Egyptian government has raised petrol prices and fares on public transport to limit the impact of the conflict on its public finances. It has also slowed down large, energy-intensive state projects and cut government vehicle fuel allowances by nearly a third. The Philippines has declared a national emergency, with its government offering subsidies to transport drivers, reducing ferry services and implementing a four-day work week for civil servants. With 98% of its oil imported from the Gulf, the Asian nation has seen the cost of diesel and petrol more than double. The Filipino government has vowed to stockpile a million more barrels of oil, and has not excluded further measures. "Nothing is off the table," President Ferdinand Marcos said. "We are looking at everything we can do." Sri Lanka, which has only just emerged from a financial crisis, is another Asian nation that relies heavily on Gulf states for fuel imports. To conserve fuel, it has declared Wednesdays a public holiday for government institutions such as schools and universities. It has also introduced fuel rationing, with drivers limited to 15 litres a week and motorcyclists 5 litres. The Thai government has asked people to take their jackets off as part of measures to cut down on the amount of energy consumed by air conditioning units. People in Thailand have been told to keep air conditioning at 26-27C, while all government agencies have been told to work from home. The Asian country is consistently hot and humid, with Bangkok typically reaching 72% humidity in April. Authorities have ordered fuel supply companies to prioritise security institutions, major government projects, key industries and the manufacture of essential goods. The Ethiopian Oil and Energy Authority's measures saw petrol stations prioritising public transport, as well as restrictions to conserve fuel. Authorities in the Tigray region, where there are fears of a return to civil war, have announced a complete suspension of fuel supplies. In Myanmar, private vehicles are currently only allowed to operate on alternate days depending on whether their licence plate is an odd or even number. Electric vehicles are exempt. The government has also implemented a digitally-monitored fuel rationing system, where purchases are scanned, logged and tracked using a QR code on vehicles. Vietnam has strongly encouraged its citizens to stay at home more to conserve fuel. The government also called on people to "ride bicycles, carpool, use public transport, and restrict personal vehicle use when unnecessary". The Asian nation has also temporarily rescinded its environmental protection tax on petrol and diesel, which are also exempt from VAT. Bangladesh was quick to close its universities when the war began, bringing forward holidays to celebrate the end of Ramadan. The country also started rationing fuel sales for most vehicles. The government has brought in more planned blackouts to limit energy consumption as well. Slovenia has become the first EU member state to implement fuel rationing. Under the measures, private motorists in Slovenia will be restricted to a maximum purchase of 50 litres of fuel per day. Businesses and farmers have a more generous allowance of 200 litres. South Sudan has started to ration electricity in its capital, Juba. The main electricity distributor, Jedco, said parts of the city would start experiencing daily power cuts on a rotational basis. The country has some of East Africa's largest oil reserves, but the majority is exported, while it imports the refined product needed for fuel. According to the International Energy Agency, South Sudan generates 96% of its electricity from oil. You can also get in touch by following this link Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. The aircraft is currently touring Scotland taking in Aberdeen, Dundee and Kirkwall. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Countries across Africa have taken measures such as diluting petrol and restricting electricity consumption to cope with the fuel crisis triggered by the US and Israel's war in Iran. South Sudan has started to ration electricity in its capital, Juba, while Mauritius has imposed restrictions to reduce wastage especially in high-power consumption areas. As governments look for alternative sources of fuel - and people fear rising prices - suppliers in Ethiopia have been ordered to prioritise specific sectors, while Zimbabwe is increasing the ethanol content in its petrol. However, some nations such as Nigeria and South Africa could potentially benefit from new business as a result of the conflict. South Sudan has some of East Africa's largest oil reserves, but the majority is exported, while it imports the refined product needed for fuel. According to the International Energy Agency, South Sudan generates 96% of its electricity from oil. The power rationing comes on top of the intermittent cuts that have been ongoing since May last year due to maintenance operations. On Wednesday, Juba's main electricity distributor, Jedco, said parts of the city would start experiencing daily power cuts on a rotational basis. "Due to the ongoing Iran-US conflict... Jedco must proactively manage its available energy reserves... we are prioritising a strategic rationing of power," it said. Ereneo Mogga, an electrical engineer who lives in one of the worst affected parts of Juba, told the BBC that power often goes off at 16:00 and doesn't come back on until 04:00 the next day. "This paralyses most businesses," he said, adding that some of those who can afford it are switching to solar power. "It is very expensive though, but it costs less in terms of consumption." The island nation of Mauritius is heavily dependent on oil imports for generating its electricity, with a shortage reportedly triggering an energy emergency. According to the government, a shipment of oil that had been due to arrive over the weekend did not materialise, leaving the country with only 21 days of stock. Energy Minister Patrick Assirvaden said on Monday that the government had obtained alternative fuel supplies from Singapore that were due to arrive on 1 April and more later in the month, but at a higher cost. With governments scrambling to find alternative sources of fuel, Zimbabwe has said it will increase the amount of ethanol it uses in its petrol, from 5% to 20%. It has also announced plans to scrap some taxes on fuel imports to reduce fuel prices, which have risen 40% in less than a month. One street vendor in the capital, Harare said the prices of everything had shot up since the war in Iran began. Nicole Mazarura, who sells soft drinks from a push cart, told the BBC she can't raise the price of the drinks so she has to bear the loss, while her transport costs had doubled, depending on the time of day and where she orders her products from. "If transport costs go back to where they were, I can survive," she said. In Ethiopia, authorities have ordered fuel supply companies to prioritise security institutions, major government projects, key industries and the manufacture of essential goods. The Ethiopian Oil and Energy Authority's measures announced last week saw petrol stations prioritising public transport, as well as restrictions to conserve fuel. Authorities in the Tigray region, where there are fears of a return to civil war, have announced a complete suspension of fuel supplies. In Kenya, 20% of petrol stations are reportedly experiencing supply shortages. An association representing petroleum outlets in the country has cited high demand for fuel because of panic buying, with stock levels running low. Vivo Energy Kenya, which distributes Shell products and services in Kenya, said on Thursday that increased demand had resulted in "temporary stock-outs" at some of its service stations. It said it was monitoring the situation and was working to ensure there was fuel in the affected sites. Kenya's energy ministry on Wednesday denied that there was a shortage of fuel, accusing retailers of hoarding the commodity in anticipation of higher prices. The minister, Opiyo Wandayi, also urged Kenyans not to engage in panic buying. The country's booming floriculture industry has also been hit by problems with shipping due to the war in Iran, as well as a decline in demand in the Middle East. The Kenya Flower Council on Tuesday said there had been a loss of more that $4.2m (£3.15) over the last three weeks, the Associated Press (AP) reported. One manager at a flower farm south of Nairobi, told AP they used to export 450,000 stems a day, but are now "discarding almost 50%". Meanwhile, the Kenya Ports Authority has prioritised the export of perishable products such as tea, flowers and avocados for maritime routes, which have become longer due to diversions, according to the Daily Nation news site. Neighbouring Uganda has assured citizens that the government is taking measures to ensure there is enough fuel, amid reports of shortages. The government has warned fuel distributors against increasing prices. In South Africa, officials have said that the country has sufficient supplies but warn that a prolonged conflict could affect availability and prices in the coming months. "South Africa's fuel supply remains stable in the immediate term, and there is no basis for panic buying," an official government statement said on Thursday. There have been reports of fuel stations around the country rationing the amount of diesel that customers can buy, even though prices have already sharply increased. South Africa's Competition Commission has warned the owners of fuel stations against excessively raising prices, saying they risked "being prosecuted". However, some ports and marine services in southern and eastern Africa could benefit from tankers and containers avoiding the Red Sea and the Strait of Hormuz, and sailing around the Cape of Good Hope. "The new longer routes are going to put increasing pressure on many of the offshore port areas in southern Africa – Walvis Bay, Cape Town, Durban, Maputo, Dar es Salaam," says Senior Researcher, Institute for Security Studies, Timothy Walker. "Ships will potentially be looking to stop there and resupply themselves, pick up new food supplies or new crew," he told the BBC. And Africa's second largest oil producer, Nigeria could benefit from higher oil prices. It has offered to pump more oil to help meet global demand. But even if the government and oil companies earn more revenue, "ordinary people may not feel the benefit immediately because if international petrol prices rise, transport costs increase everywhere," Dumebi Oluwole, a lead economist from Lagos who specialises in oil, told the BBC. Additional reporting by Michael Teferi, Nichola Mandil and Marco Oriunto Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The boss of Asda has rejected claims retailers are using soaring oil costs to boost their own profits, after fuel prices inched up again on Friday. The average price for a litre of petrol rose above 150p for the first time in nearly two years, with diesel over 177p, a month after the US and Israel launched attacks on Iran. The figures from the RAC show the conflict is continuing to push up fuel prices, although they remain below the peaks seen after Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The cost of filling a typical family car with unleaded petrol is now £9.50 higher than a month ago, at over £82. A tank of diesel costs £19 more at over £97. Asda executive chairman Allan Leighton hit back at suggestions forecourts had been profiteering from the crisis, accusing ministers of "pointing the finger" at retailers. He also said the conflict was affecting fuel supplies in some locations, with a small number of pumps out of use following bumper demand. Leighton said Asda - the UK's second biggest fuel retailer - had not closed any forecourts as a result of the conflict and expected any affected petrol pumps to be back in use after its next delivery. "Our fuel volumes are up quite significantly and clearly demand has been outstripping supply," he said. "Supply is tight and we are all trying hard on that." The Petrol Retailers Association (PRA) said it was aware of reports about fuel availability "at a small number of forecourts for one retailer" but that there was no cause for concern. "Supply across the UK is flowing normally and there is no need for any change in usual buying habits," said said PRA director Gordon Balmer. The RAC described the rise in petrol prices above the 150p-a-litre mark as an "unwelcome milestone". "With the long-awaited four-day Easter weekend almost within touching distance, the cost of getting away by car is going to be noticeably higher this year," said RAC head of policy Simon Williams. Unleaded petrol is now 17p more per litre than before the conflict began. Diesel is 35p per litre more expensive. The RAC's advice for drivers is to "plan carefully" where to refuel, making use of apps that allow them to compare prices at local outlets. The discussion over fuel pricing has become increasingly heated in recent weeks as the wholesale price has risen. Fuel retailers have criticised the government for using "inflammatory" language, after the government said it would clamp down on any retailers who tried to "rip off" customers. The Competition and Markets Authority has said it will step up its monitoring of a sector. Leighton said Asda's profit margins were down as a result of the recent spike in prices and that it was "very clear" there was no profiteering. "The government is getting a lot of money off the back of this, and before they start accusing people of profiteering, just in my book, there's no credibility in any of it," Leighton said. "You don't have to be Einstein to work out that that actually is impossible in the current situation. "I think the government needs to look at what it is doing instead of pointing the finger at everybody else," he added. While fuel duty is imposed at a flat rate, the government levies VAT on the overall retail cost of petrol and diesel, which means higher prices boost tax revenues. Brent Crude oil topped $110 a barrel again on Friday, despite President Trump further postponing plans to start destroying Iranian energy plants. Wholesale oil prices have fluctuated between $73 and $116 a barrel for Brent Crude over the past four weeks, driven by traders' views of whether the flow of oil out of the Middle East was set to get easier or more difficult. Late on Thursday Trump said talks with Iran were going "very well" and that he was holding off on military strikes on Iran's energy infrastructure until at least 6 April. In the past such pronouncements have helped to calm the markets. However, Russ Mould investment director at AJ Bell said comments out of Washington and Tehran seemed to come from "parallel worlds". Higher wholesale prices push up prices at the pump, often with a slight delay, although a big proportion of the overall fuel price is made up of the cost of transport, processing, retail and tax. Analysts say every $10 increase in the wholesale oil price pushes up pump prices by around 7p a litre. The new rules will be introduced in October and are described as the most significant reform of driver licensing for 70 years. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Venezuela's former leader Nicolás Maduro and his wife, Cilia Flores, are due back in court in New York later on Thursday, where they face charges of "narco-terrorism". The couple was seized on 3 January in an audacious raid by US special forces authorised by President Donald Trump. In the hours after the raid, Trump said his administration would run Venezuela until a "safe, proper and judicious transition" could take place, adding that the US would indefinitely control the sale of the country's oil. Nicolás Maduro and former First Lady Cilia Flores were indicted in the Southern District of New York in January and are being held in a jail in Brooklyn. They face four charges: Both Maduro and Flores pleaded not guilty in their first court appearance in January. Maduro insisted he was a "decent man" and his wife said she was "completely innocent". Their trial expected to last many months, if not years. Nicolás Maduro, a former bus driver and trade unionist, rose to prominence under the leadership of the previous left-wing Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, serving as his foreign minister. Maduro was elected president after Chávez's death in 2013. Under his rule, the party founded by Chávez, the United Socialist Party of Venezuela (PSUV), further tightened its control over key institutions in Venezuela, including the National Assembly, much of the judiciary, and the electoral council. In the most recent presidential election in July 2024, the electoral council declared Maduro the winner, even though voting tallies collected by the opposition suggested that its candidate, Edmundo González, had won by a landslide. Pressure on Maduro increased after the start of Trump's second term in January 2025. Trump called him a "bad guy" who is "no friend of the US", insisting that it would be "smart" for him to step down. Trump blamed Maduro for the arrival of hundreds of thousands of Venezuelan migrants in the US. Without providing any evidence to back up his claims, he accused him of "emptying his prisons and insane asylums" and "forcing" inmates to migrate to the US. Trump also said that under Maduro, huge quantities of cocaine and fentanyl had reached the US from Venezuela. Despite Trump saying that the US would "run" Venezuela, Maduro loyalist Delcy Rodríguez - who served as vice-president before the US raid - is in charge on the ground. Venezuela's National Assembly - which is dominated by lawmakers from the PSUV - swore her in as interim president after Maduro was taken. The constitution says the vice-president can remain in post for up to 180 days, but that if the president's absence is deemed "permanent", elections must be called within 30 days. So far, Rodríguez appears to have the backing of the US. After their first phone conversation, Trump described her as a "terrific person" who was working well with his administration. He had previously warned Rodríguez that if she did not comply with US demands, she would "pay a very big price, probably bigger than Maduro". Trump also held a face-to-face meeting at the White House with Venezuelan opposition leader María Corina Machado. She presented him with her Nobel Peace Prize medal, in recognition of his commitment to her country's freedom. The US president said meeting Machado was a "great honour", calling her a "wonderful woman who has been through so much". But he did not endorse her as Venezuela's new leader, even though voting tallies gathered by her opposition coalition suggested the candidate who stood in for her after she was banned from running had won by a landslide. Rodríguez is taking a two-pronged approach: using defiant rhetoric when addressing her supporters while largely complying with US demands. She described Maduro's seizure as a "kidnapping", and organised public rallies calling for his and Flores's release. But her government also swiftly changed the law to allow foreign investment in the country's oil industry. She had a two-hour meeting with CIA director John Ratcliffe and met US envoy Laura Dogu. The US embassy in Caracas reopened after a seven-year hiatus, during which there had been no diplomatic relations between the two countries. Under US pressure, hundreds of political prisoners have been released and an amnesty law has been passed, but prisoners' rights group Foro Penal warns that hundreds of political prisoners remain behind bars. Rodríguez has also replaced some ministers and senior officials with people from her inner circle, but they too are Maduro loyalists. Trump promised to "unleash" Venezuela's oil, while indefinitely controlling its sale. "One of the things the United States gets out of this will be even lower energy prices," he said after the US raid. Venezuela has the largest proven oil reserves in the world - an estimated 303 billion barrels. However, production has plummeted from its peak in the late 1990s. Trump has asked US oil firms to invest at least $100bn (£75bn) to restore the oil industry to its former glory. He claimed the rights to Venezuela's oil after alleging that the country had in the past "unilaterally seized and sold American oil, American assets and American platforms, costing us billions and billions of dollars". Venezuela's oil industry was nationalised in 1976, and in 2006 state control over production was further tightened, prompting many foreign firms to leave. Unlike other foreign oil firms such as Chevron and BP, US oil giants ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips refused to sell their controlling stakes to Venezuela's state-run oil company PDVSA, as demanded by the 2006 changes. They were ordered to leave the country and had their assets seized. The two companies were later awarded billions of dollars in compensation, which Venezuela has not paid, blaming US sanctions for its failure to settle the debts. Legal experts point out that based on the UN principle of permanent sovereignty over natural resources, Venezuela's oil belongs to its people. US Secretary of State Marco Rubio said the Trump administration would allow Venezuela to sell its oil but that "the funds from that will be deposited into an account that we will have oversight over". He added that the US would ensure that Venezuela would spend the proceeds "for the benefit" of its people. The US military stormed Fuerte Tiuna, the military base where Maduro and his wife were staying, at 02:01 local time (06:01 GMT) on 3 January 2026. According to Trump, more than 150 aircraft got the extraction team into the capital Caracas, and US officials indicated that air strikes around the city provided cover to get them out. Trump said Maduro made it to a steel-fortified safe room but was unable to close the door. Venezuela Interior Minister Diosdado Cabello said that 100 people died during the  operation, including civilians and 32 Cubans who served as Maduro's bodyguards. Maduro and his wife were taken on board the USS Iwo Jima before being flown to New York. The strikes were condemned by Venezuela's long-term allies. Russia accused the US of "an act of armed aggression", while China's foreign ministry called on the US to release Maduro and his wife "at once". Many Latin American countries also criticised the operation, including Venezuela's neighbours Colombia and Brazil. UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres' spokesman said he was "deeply concerned that the rules of international law have not been respected". The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Oil prices remained volatile on Wednesday, as the US and Iran clashed over what terms might bring the conflict in the Middle East to an end. Brent crude rose to $101 a barrel at midday in the US before falling back to $98 as President Donald Trump spoke optimistically about the possibility of reaching a deal. But Iranian media on Wednesday cited leaders criticising the US peace proposal. They presented their own terms for a ceasefire, including international recognition of Iran's "sovereign right" to control the Strait of Hormuz, a key route for global oil and gas supplies. On Wednesday, White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt maintained that US attacks were working to convince the Iranian regime to negotiate. She said failure to reach an agreement would be a result of the Iranian regime refusing "to understand they have already been defeated". Distance between the two sides could prolong a conflict that has rocked financial markets and sent energy prices soaring since the US and Israel attacked Iran on 28 February. Iran has effectively blocked the Strait of Hormuz since the start of the war, cutting off a waterway that usually sees about 20% of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas pass through each day. It has generated a supply crisis, forcing countries in Asia - the main destination for oil from the Gulf - to take unusual measures to try to secure oil and gas supplies. Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos declared a state of emergency in his country, which imports 98% of its oil from the Gulf, while on Tuesday, the boss of energy giant Shell said oil shortages could hit Europe next month. Larry Fink, the boss of US financial giant BlackRock, told the BBC that a global recession could be triggered if the price of oil hits $150 a barrel. But hopes that momentum might be building to reach resolution have helped to boost investor spirits and ease oil price pressures. In the US, the main indexes closed higher with the Dow Jones up 0.6% and the Nasdaq 0.7% ahead. The S&P 500 finished marginally higher. In the UK, the FTSE 100 was 1.4% higher after trading ended. Germany's Dax index rose 1.3% and in France, the Cac gained 1.1%. Overnight, major stock exchanges in the Asia Pacific closed higher. Japan's Nikkei 225 ended 2.8% up and South Korea's Kospi index rose 1.5%. Both countries are heavily reliant on oil that passes through the Strait of Hormuz. Australia's ASX 200 index was up by more 1.8%. Hong Kong's Hang Seng and Shanghai's composite each gained by around 1%. In a message posted by its mission to the United Nations on Tuesday, Iran had said it would allow "non-hostile vessels" to pass through the Strait of Hormuz, provided they coordinate with "the competent Iranian authorities". The statement came after some countries appeared to have negotiated safe passage for their vessels despite Tehran threatening to target ships that tried to use the channel. The US on Friday had also lifted sanctions on Iranian oil, in a move it said would help ease the supply crunch. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
First energy bills, then petrol prices. Now the cost of food could be the next price jump as a result of the war in the Middle East. Nitrogen-based fertilisers are an essential part of modern farming – farms globally would produce about half the amount of food they do without it. About one third of all global fertiliser normally passes through the Strait of Hormuz – at least, it did. Iran has effectively blocked the Strait of Hormuz since the US and Israel attacked the country on 28 February. About one-fifth of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas also passes through this shipping lane. John McLenaghan of the Ulster Farmers' Union is one of those dealing with the fallout. "Fertiliser prices have been skyrocketing; we can't even get prices quoted. It's not just price actually, it's about availability. "You just can't get it, it's as simple as that." Although his fertiliser delivery arrived as scheduled, there's no guarantee he'll get all he needs this planting season. "This is a time we need to be applying it and we just can't get it. It has come at the worst possible time. "Farmers have had fertiliser on order and they're not getting their full order. They're going to order more and they are not getting it." Spring is when newly-sown crops are most in need of fertiliser; if all the delayed supplies arrive in a month's time, it will be too late for them to do much good. Alexis Maxwell, a senior analyst at Bloomberg specialising in fertiliser and agriculture markets, said growing crops was a "bit like growing children". "They have very specific nutrient demands in a very short window – we are in that window in the northern hemisphere now." Maxwell says that price spikes in commodities like urea and ammonia, essential for fertiliser, show the scale of the challenge. If fertiliser costs rise high enough, farmers may decide they won't be able to make the cost back in higher food prices. That would mean choosing to produce less. "We are just shy of the all-time record for costliness of nitrogen fertiliser, set in 2005. So, it's very expensive and some farmers will go without, some farmers will have to pay quite a bit." Either choice is likely to be bad news for consumers. Be it from higher costs for farmers from fertiliser, or from less production, consumers are likely to find themselves paying more for food in the years to come. Farmers will already face higher costs for other components as a result of the conflict, like red diesel. Maxwell thinks the damage has already been done. It will raise the cost to produce food, and then also the cost to bring the material from farm to consumer will rise as well. Unfortunately, those together signal more food inflation ahead. "This is something I anticipate to continue into next year, even if the war ends while we're having this conversation." "This is all for producing food. There is an inevitability as those costs to produce it go up and the amount you can produce goes down. You have a supply-demand situation which will pull the price up." Should the conflict continue, he fears an even worse shock to food prices than that seen at the beginning of the war in Ukraine. Whenever Russia invaded Ukraine there was a similar shortage of supply and  "a significant increase in price". "This time it's actually worse because at that time we had an alternative source of the product," he said. "Whether it's bread, whether it's vegetables, whether its your strawberries or your avocados, it doesn't really matter. "All of them rely on fertilisers to grow and they're going to be affected by the situation we now have." He added that this latest shock must spark change in the approach to fertiliser production. "Over 60% of the fertiliser we use in the UK is imported, so only 40% is produced here. We used to have a significant the fertiliser industry in Northern Ireland that is now not completely disappeared but is much smaller than it used to be," he said. "We have the opportunity to look to use those resources which we have in forms of organic natural manures and utilise those to produce our own fertilisers again and become more self-sufficient and become more sustainable at the same time." A wreath was laid by the Irish President Catherine Connolly at the General Post Office (GPO) in the Irish capital and in Belfast thousands of people turned out for a parade in the west of the city. Dawn Fearns says the custard slice tour is also a nostalgic reminder of her childhood and late mother. The disorder, which happened before the Irish Cup semi-final at Windsor Park, saw fireworks, flares and bottles thrown. A yellow weather warning for wind came into force at 14:00 BST on Saturday and ended at 03:00 BST on Sunday. The new rules will be introduced in October and are described as the most significant reform of driver licensing for 70 years. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Traders bet hundreds of millions of dollars on oil contracts just minutes before US President Donald Trump announced on Monday that the US would postpone strikes against Iranian energy infrastructure. Market data reviewed by the BBC shows the volume of trade spiked around fifteen minutes before a social media post by the president announcing the move. The price of oil fell sharply after the announcement, dropping 14% in a matter of minutes. Traders who bet on the unexpected move would have made money. Some market analysts say the unusual activity opens up the possibility that the bets may have been placed with prior knowledge of the decision. The BBC has contacted the White House for comment. A spokesman told the Financial Times that it did not "tolerate any administration official illegally profiteering off of insider knowledge". The Commodity Futures Trading Commission did not respond to a request for comment. The Securities and Exchange Commission declined to comment. Global financial markets have been rocked by the Middle East conflict, with share prices sliding as the cost of oil and gas soared, but on several occasions hope of a potential end to the war has seen volatile movements with oil falling sharply and stock markets rising. On Saturday, Trump threatened to "obliterate" Iran's power plants if it did not re-open the Strait of Hormuz, through which about 20% of the world's oil and gas normally pass, within 48 hours. Markets were closed that day, but fell sharply across Asia when they re-opened on Monday morning, while the price of oil started to climb. However, at 07:04 Eastern Time (11:04 GMT) on Monday, before US markets opened for the week, the president posted on his Truth Social platform that Washington had held "VERY GOOD AND PRODUCTIVE CONVERSATIONS" with Tehran over a "COMPLETE AND TOTAL RESOLUTION" to hostilities. Immediately, stocks bounced and the price of oil dipped to as low as $84 (£63) per barrel for the benchmark US price. Observers have since scrutinised what happened in financial markets in the minutes leading up to the president's post. At 06:49 ET, traders placed 734 bets on WTI crude oil contracts on the New York Mercantile Exchange (Nymex). One minute later, that number had jumped to 2,168. That's equivalent to about $170m. The same pattern can be seen in traders buying contracts for Brent crude, the other major oil benchmark. Between 06:48 and 06:50 ET, the volume of trades rose from 20 to more than 1,650. That's about $150m in contracts. Data for previous Mondays shows that far fewer trades are normally made at that time of day. Similar trades also happened on Monday with futures contracts for the S&P 500, Euro Stoxx 50, and other markets. This means traders placed bets on the value of the largest firms listed in the US and Europe rising minutes before Trump's announcement. "This appears abnormal, for sure," says Mukesh Sahdev, chief oil analysts at XAnalysts. "At that time, there were no indications that any serious talks had been taking place between the US and Iran. So to place so much money on oil going down raises questions". The timing of the bets has raised questions over whether they were made with prior knowledge of the president's announcement. "Just before he posted on social media, quite a lot of people took out contracts that would allow them to profit from the oil price falling," said Rachel Winter, a partner at the wealth management firm Killik & Co. "So there has been some speculation about insider trading. We don't know if that's true, but hopefully there will be some sort of investigation into that," she added. Later on Monday, the Iranian government denied that any talks had taken place, calling them "fake news". Oil prices crept up again after those comments. In a post on X, the Speaker of Iran's parliament, Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, said "fake news is used to manipulate the financial and oil markets and escape the quagmire in which the US and Israel are trapped." The BBC has contacted the US financial regulator and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the UK pointed the BBC to comments made by its chief executive Nikhil Rathi's to the Treasury Select Committee on Tuesday. "We are surveilling markets and our approach to market abuse will be to look at the evidence in front of us. I can't speak for what our US colleagues are doing," he said. "Our fundamental focus is on resilience and functioning of markets and so far, not withstanding the extraordinary volatility, that has been there." This is not the first time that US foreign policy has been linked to a flurry of betting activity. In January, wagers surged on Polymarket, a crypto-powered predictions platform, as gamblers bet on Venezuela's president Nicolás Maduro being be out of power by the end of the month. Hours later he was seized by American forces. One account made more than $436,000 from a $32,537 bet. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The price of Brent crude oil rose back above $100 a barrel as the direction of the US-Israel war in Iran remained unclear. On Tuesday, US President Donald Trump continued to float the possibility of a quick end to the conflict, describing Iran as "totally defeated" and Washington was negotiating with Iranian leaders who were "talking sense". But Tehran has previously rejected claims that it had been in contact with the US, calling them an attempt to manipulate energy prices and stock markets. The war has sparked a global energy crisis and the boss of oil giant Shell warned  that oil shortages could hit Europe next month. Global energy markets have seen volatile trading since the US and Israel attacked Iran on 28 February. Oil and gas prices have soared, as Iran responded by effectively blocking the Strait of Hormuz, a narrow waterway which typically sees about 20% of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas pass through each day. Wael Sawan, chief executive of Shell, told an energy industry conference in Houston: "South Asia was first to get that brunt. That's moved to south east Asia, north east Asia and then more so into Europe as we get into April." A spokesperson for the UK's Department for Energy Security and Net Zero, said: "The UK has diverse and resilient energy supply. We continue to work with partners on the international situation." Fears that the conflict was escalating over the weekend helped to send Brent, the benchmark global oil price, to $113 a barrel. Oil prices had dropped back on Monday after Trump said the US would postpone strikes against Iranian energy infrastructure for five days, citing constructive talks between Washington and Tehran about resolving the hostilities. By Tuesday, doubts about those discussions sent the price back up to more than $103. UK businesses said the war in the Middle East has already had an "adverse impact on customer demand, input prices and supply chains" in March. They reported the biggest monthly rise in costs since 1992, according to the S&P Global Purchasing Managers' Index, a key business survey. Globally countries have attempted to ease the impact of higher energy prices and supply disruptions. The US has temporarily waived sanctions on Russian, put in place after the Kremlin in 2022 launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine. The US also eased sanctions on Iranian oil already at sea. On Tuesday, China dialled back on planned fuel price hikes in a bid to "reduce the burden" on drivers, as energy costs surge due to the Iran war. Stock markets have been mixed amid reports that the US was preparing to deploy soldiers to the Middle East. In the US, all three major indexes slumped, with the S&P 500 ending down almost 0.4%. In Europe, London's FTSE 100 closed up 0.72%, Germany's Dax ended marginally lower and in France, the Cac finished 0.23% ahead. In Asia, where markets have been rocked in recent weeks due to the region's dependence on the oil and gas that would normally pass through the strait, key indices posted gains. Japan's Nikkei 225 ended up 1.4%, while the Hang Seng in Hong Kong and South Korea's Kospi both closed more than 2.7% higher. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Oil prices plunged and stock markets rebounded after Donald Trump said the US would hold off on strikes against Iranian power plants, citing "constructive" discussions about ending the conflict in the Middle East. The US president wrote on social media that the two countries had held talks about a "COMPLETE AND TOTAL" resolution - but Iran denied these talks had happened. The price of Brent crude sank, while European and US shares rose following Trump's statement. Trump had previously said he would "obliterate" Iranian power plants if the Strait of Hormuz shipping route was not reopened in 48 hours. Iran had said it would respond by targeting key infrastructure in the region. The comments over the weekend had rattled financial markets, adding to fears that the US-Israeli war with Iran would be a prolonged conflict. At one point on Monday, the price of Brent had hit $113 a barrel, but it tumbled in the immediate aftermath of Trump's latest comments. It fell to a low of $96 a barrel, before rebounding a bit. While oil fell, stocks rose. London's FTSE 100 index ended the day flat after being down more than 2% earlier on Monday. Germany's Dax index also rebounded to close 1.2% higher while France's Cac ended up roughly 0.9%. In the US, the S&P 500 index rose more than 1.1%, while the Dow Jones closed nearly 1.4% higher. Stocks in Asia, which closed before Trump's latest comments, had seen heavy falls with Japan's Nikkei index dropping 3.5% and South Korea's Kospi down 6.5%. Japan and South Korea have been particularly affected by the conflict, as they are heavily dependent on oil and gas that would normally pass through the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world's busiest oil shipping channels. Since the war began on 28 February, Iran has effectively blocked the waterway. About 20% of the world's oil and liquefied natural gas usually passes through the strait - and the conflict has sent global fuel prices soaring. In the Monday morning post on Truth Social, written in all capital letters, Trump said the US and Iran had held talks over the weekend about "a complete and total resolution of our hostilities". He said based on the "tenor and tone of these in depth, detailed and constructive conversations" he had instructed the military to postpone any strikes against Iranian power plants and energy infrastructure for five days. That decision was "subject to the success of ongoing meetings and discussions," he added. However, Iran's foreign ministry then issued a statement, which said: "We deny what US President Donald Trump said regarding negotiations taking place between the United States of America and the Islamic Republic of Iran." "No negotiations have been held with the US, and fakenews is used to manipulate the financial and oil markets and escape the quagmire in which the US and Israel are trapped," Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf, speaker of Iran's parliament wrote on X. Susannah Streeter, chief investment strategist at Wealth Club, said Trump's comments had taken markets on a "wild ride". However, she added: "Clinging to President Trump's words is fraught with risks, given how hopes have already risen and then been dashed over the last four weeks." She also noted that with oil still above $100 a barrel, "energy costs will remain super-painful for companies and consumers". "It's clear that traders are still expecting significantly lower flows from the Middle East, even if a ceasefire is agreed, given the disruption to supply routes and the damage to facilities." The conflict has already disrupted global energy supplies, pushing up prices and causing fuel shortages. Earlier on Monday, the head of the International Energy Agency (IEA), Fatih Birol, had warned the war could see the world facing its worst energy crisis in decades. Birol compared the current energy crisis to those of the 1970s and the impact of Russia's 2022 invasion of Ukraine. "This crisis as things stand is now two oil crises and one gas crash put all together," he said, speaking at an event in Australia. The jump in oil and gas prices since the start of the conflict has raised fears of a sharp increase in domestic energy bills in the UK later this year. UK Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer spoke to Trump on Sunday and they discussed the need to reopen the Strait of Hormuz. Later on Monday, Sir Keir is set to chair a meeting of the government's emergency Cobra committee, which will be attended by Bank of England governor Andrew Bailey. The meeting, which was arranged before Trump's latest comments, is expected to focus on energy security and the resilience of supply chains, and discuss the impact of the war on the cost of living. UK government borrowing costs have been rising rapidly over the past few days, and on Friday they hit their highest level since the 2008 financial crisis. On Monday, the yield - or interest rate - on government borrowing over a 10-year period rose to 5.12% at one point, before dropping to about 4.9% after Trump's comments. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Oil and gas prices rose sharply and stock markets slid back on Thursday after Iranian strikes hit energy infrastructure in the Middle East, including Qatar's main gas facility. Brent crude was trading at just over $108 a barrel on Thursday evening, having risen as high as $119 earlier in the day. UK gas prices were 154.8p per therm, an increase of 11.3% from a day earlier. They had peaked close to 183p on Thursday. The FTSE 100 closed at 10,049, a fall of 2.4%, while shares in Paris and Frankfurt also dropped, as investors become increasingly concerned over the potential economic impact of a prolonged conflict. In Japan, the Nikkei share index closed down 3.4%, while the three main indexes in the US ended the day modestly lower. Bonds on both sides of the Atlantic fell as fears of a surge in inflation continue. The UK is heavily reliant on imported natural gas, and the rise in British gilt yields on Thursday was far sharper than for German or US bonds. Bonds are essentially government debt. The buyer eventually receives the value of the bond back, plus interest - the yield - at regular intervals. UK bonds, known as gilts, are purchased mainly by financial institutions like pension funds, as they are seen as a relatively safe investment. Bond yields going up usually means that investors are worried about turbulence in the economy because the government is taking on more debt. Yields on two-year gilts were on track on Thursday for their biggest daily increase since Liz Truss's mini budget in 2022. One reason sharp movements in bond yields matter to individuals is because they can have an impact on the mortgage market, with higher yields potentially making mortgage deals more expensive. The jump in oil and gas prices came after Iran's South Pars gas facility – one of the world's largest natural gas fields – was hit on Wednesday evening. Iran retaliated by targeting Ras Laffan, a major liquefied natural gas (LNG) export facility in Qatar, causing "extensive damage", raising concerns over the global energy supply. QatarEnergy, the country's state-owned energy company, said the required repairs to the facility will reduce output by 12.8m tons of LNG for three to five years. The country, which produces a fifth of the world's LNG, had halted production earlier in March in response to the conflict. Nick Butler, former head of strategy at BP, told the BBC's Today programme that the strike on Ras Laffan would "almost certainly cut off a level of supply of LNG to the world market". "I think the worry now is that the market is expecting things to get worse. That in their view, Mr Trump has opened a Pandora's box, and he's lost control of what is happening day-to-day in the region." He said the gas in Ras Laffan "can't be substituted very quickly at all, and maybe not for a very long time", which will push up prices. As well as dashing hopes of interest rate cuts around the world, the conflict is set to have a drastic effect on the global economy, the World Trade Organisation (WTO) has warned. In its forecast for global trade this year, the WTO predicted growth in global goods trade would slow from 4.6% last year to 1.9% this year, but if higher oil and gas prices were sustained, then that could be just 1.4%. "The global economy is full of uncertainty at this point in time, I think that's the biggest issue," WTO Director General Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala told the BBC. She added that interruptions to oil and gas markets were also harming fertilizer supplies and this could reduce food availability and push up prices. Thailand, India and Brazil were particularly vulnerable, she said. Iran's Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said the country will show "zero restraint" if its infrastructure is attacked again. "The ONLY reason for restraint was respect for requested de-escalation," he wrote on X. US President Donald Trump said on Thursday he had told Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu not to attack Iranian energy fields, which he said Netanyahu agreed not to do. US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said on Thursday the US was considering suspending sanctions on Iranian oil as it looks for ways to keep oil prices in check. The move would affect about 140 million barrels of oil already on the water, he told Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business. It adds to other US efforts to boost oil supplies, including the suspension of sanctions on Russian oil and moving to relax shipping rules to ease shipments of oil and other commodities between US ports. The world consumes about 100 million barrels per day of oil. Earlier efforts by world leaders to ease price pressures, including an unprecedented release of oil reserves, have done little to reduce prices. Meanwhile, Iran has also suspended the flow of gas to Iraq to shore up domestic supplies, a senior Iraqi official told Reuters. The vast majority of Iran's gas supply - 94% - is used domestically, according to data from the Gas Exporting Countries Forum. Additional reporting by Jonathan Josephs. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Scottish government has provided £5.4m towards a £10m fund to help lower income households that rely on heating oil to warm their homes. The US-Israel war with Iran saw oil prices soar at the start of March. About 142,000 Scottish households use heating oil and average costs in Scotland rose from 67.92p per litre on 28 February - the day US and Israel launched attacks on Iran - to 147p per litre by 8 March. The Scottish government said its emergency heating oil scheme would be launched on 1 April, with details on eligibility criteria to be released in coming days. The £10m includes £4.6m from the UK government. The UK government announced a £53m support package earlier this week. Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said the aid would be targeted to help low-income households in rural communities. About 1.5 million UK households use heating oil. The issue of rising prices is particularly acute in Northern Ireland, where about 500,000 homes use it, almost two-thirds of all households. Scotland's energy secretary Gillian Martin said oil prices had been "spiralling" since the war in the Middle East. She said the UK government's support was welcome but offered "limited" help to Scottish households. "That is why the Scottish government is announcing today we will more than double the amount available to support Scottish households struggling with heating oil prices," said Martin. "We will commit an additional £5.4m on top of the £4.6m allocated by the UK government." Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Donald Trump has said the US does not need the help of other countries in its war against Iran - just days after calling on US allies to help secure the vital Strait of Hormuz. In a scathing post on his Truth Social platform, he said "most" of America's Nato allies had informed the US they did not want to get involved. "I am not surprised by their action, however, because I always considered NATO... to be a one way street - We will protect them, but they will do nothing for us," he wrote. In his original request on 14 March, he had said: "Hopefully China, France, Japan, South Korea, the UK, and others, that are affected by this artificial constraint, will send Ships". The strait has been effectively blocked by Iran, except for a handful of vessels carrying Iranian oil to countries such as India and China, since Israel and the US attacked Iran on 28 February. Multiple commercial cargo ships in the strait have been hit by "unknown projectiles" during more than two weeks of war, with one person reported killed. About 20% of the world's oil travels through the passage. Global oil prices rose, and some countries in Asia are taking measures to conserve fuel. In his post on Tuesday, Trump did not say which Nato states had offered to help but here is what we know about the position taken by some of its more prominent members, as well as China and other countries. At a news conference on Monday, Prime Minister Sir Keir Starmer said conversations aimed at working out a "viable plan" were ongoing with the US, European and Gulf partners, but that we are "not at the point of decisions yet". Pressed by the BBC on Sunday whether the UK was considering sending drones or ships to the region, Energy Secretary Ed Miliband responded: "You can rest assured that any options that can help to get the strait reopened are being looked at in concert with our allies." Refusing to be drawn into operational details, Miliband reiterated that "ending the conflict is the best and surest way to get the strait reopened". A government spokesman said the war with Iran had "nothing to do with Nato", while Defence Minister Boris Pistorius asked: "What does Trump expect from a handful of European frigates that the powerful US navy cannot do?" "This is not our war. We have not started it." President Emmanuel Macron has said France is ready to participate in an escort mission for container ships and tankers in the Strait of Hormuz once the situation is "calmer". Any such mission "must be entirely separate from the ongoing war operations and bombings", he told a French cabinet meeting on 17 March. "France has a simple and clear responsibility in the region: to protect our citizens and our interests, to be a reliable partner for everyone, and to work towards de-escalation and stability," he said. The country's aircraft carrier strike group is currently deployed in the Eastern Mediterranean on a "defensive" mission. Asked by reporters on Monday whether the country had received a request to send ships and how it would respond, foreign ministry spokesperson Lin Jian said: "China once again calls on parties to immediately stop military operations, avoid further escalation of the tense situation and prevent regional turmoil from further impacting the global economy." Jian also said China was "in communication with relevant parties to work for the deescalation of the situation". On Sunday, the foreign ministry told the BBC the country was "paying close attention" to Trump's remarks and the two countries would continue to "communicate closely and make a decision after careful consideration". "The Korean government is closely monitoring developments related to the situation in the Middle East and is exploring various measures under comprehensive consideration to protect Korean nationals and ensure the safety of energy transportation routes," the ministry said. Defence Minister Ahn Gyu-back told parliament on Tuesday that sending a warship to the Strait of Hormuz would require parliamentary approval. Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi said on Monday that she had not received a request to dispatch escort ships. "The Japanese government is currently examining what necessary measures should be taken. Of course, this will be within the Japanese legal framework, but we are proceeding with consideration as to how we can protect the lives of Japanese vessels and their crews, and what can be done in such regards," she said. Takaichi is due to meet Trump in Washington DC on 19 March. Foreign policy chief Kaja Kallas said on Monday that "for the time being, there was no appetite" to change the mandate of its current naval mission in the region for now. "Nobody is ready to put their people in harm's way in the Strait of Hormuz," she told Reuters news agency, adding that "we have to find diplomatic ways to keep this open". The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Tucked away in the leafy Essex countryside, the last thing David Coverdale thought when he ordered heating oil for his home was the breakout of war. But the effects of the conflict in Iran, almost 3,000 miles (4,828km) away from his rural property in Finchingfield, are now clear. Purchasing 1,000 litres (220 gallons) of the oil that warms his house cost £592 on 20 February. Two weeks later, that price had shot up to £1,322. "I've probably got, if I'm very frugal, less than a week-and-a-half's oil left," Coverdale told the BBC. He says this has left him with no choice but to pay up, otherwise he faces living in cold conditions. Prices skyrocketed after the Strait of Hormuz, the world's busiest shipping canal, was disrupted amid the US-Israeli war with Iran, which began on 28 February. Chancellor Rachel Reeves has since announced she is to offer a package of support to households struggling with higher heating costs. Coverdale's frustrations have been compounded by the fact that he has already paid the original price he was quoted in February. However, the order was cancelled and he was handed the larger bill a day before the oil was due to be delivered. "I'm very angry because the contract I had has not been honoured and there is no reason for it not to be honoured," says Coverdale, who has heated his home with oil for 53 years. "I think that's an absolutely appalling way to do a business, it's unforgiveable." Coverdale's oil supplier, Sewells Fuel, has not responded to the BBC's request for a comment. Huge price spikes are also leaving houses using heating oil vulnerable to theft. Suffolk Police says several properties in Woodbridge have been hit by criminals trying to source the fuel. John Birchall, who lives in Hollesley, on the east Suffolk coast, checked his tank last week to find out his heating oil had been stolen, and that of his neighbour. The commercial property surveyor estimates about 800 litres (175 gallons) was taken from his tank, which holds about 1,225 litres (270 gallons). Birchall relies on the oil to heat his home and water, supplemented by wood burners and solar panels. His supplier has already refilled the tank - and he has increased its security. "Historically, I've paid as little as about 20p a litre during Covid, generally between 50p and 60p a litre - and this time it was £1.30 a litre," he says. "Values are so high now they sell it on very quickly; these are the unintended consequences of the war in Iran." Officers are urging people to make their tanks less visible and be wary about rogue traders selling oil at a discounted price. One in five homes in the East of England are not connected to the gas grid, according to figures from the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero. It represents one of the highest proportions in the country, with about 576,000 out of 2.84 million homes relying on alternative heating sources. David Phillips' home in the village of Terling, near Hatfield Peverel in Essex, is among them. He too has experienced the surging cost of trying to keep his house warm in recent weeks, with 500 litres (110 gallons) of oil costing him double what it did previously. "You immediately start to think, 'Am I being treated unfairly here? Is somebody taking advantage of the price hikes going on?'," Phillips says. "Clearly this is not a one-off. Our village hub has seen a whole raft of people saying they've had orders cancelled and being told they'll just have to reorder [at a higher price]." Phillips suspects some companies may be profiteering from the war in Iran, and has raised the issue with Trading Standards. He adds: "There's got to be thousands of people that are in this position and somebody is going to be benefitting from this." Camilla Ridd, a single mother from Mattishall in Norfolk, says uncertainty about oil led to her borrowing money from both her mother and 94-year-old grandfather. She paid Goff Petroleum £427 for half a tank on 2 March, but says the company went on to give "a load of spiel about the war" and told her she needed to pay more or have the order cancelled. However, she says: "They wouldn't give me an exact figure until the day before a delivery date." Goff, which is based in Wymondham and supports depots in Norfolk, Suffolk and Cambridgeshire, says it was reacting to a surge in orders and price rises. But it backtracked on its stance and decided to honour orders, admitting passing on higher costs to customers has caused "frustration and concern". In an email to customers, the company writes: "We've chosen to take steps that support you even though they involve a significant cost to us, and we will be honouring your order, despite the wholesale price of fuel to us more than doubling." Ben Goldsborough, the Labour MP for South Norfolk, tells the BBC he has been sharing suspected bad practice with the Competitions and Markets Authority. "I'm fuming about this - I've had constituents in tears," he says. "I think it's important that, if we do see any price-gouging effects, these companies need to know that we will investigate them. "If they've tried to run rough-shod over households then they will be found out." Oil and gas prices did fall sharply on Tuesday, after US President Donald Trump said the war in Iran was "very complete, pretty much". Crude reached $120 (£89.28) a barrel on Monday, but dropped back to below $90 (£66.96) after Trump's comments. However, prices are still significantly higher than they were before the conflict. Tim Buckman, chief executive officer of oil provider Boiler Juice, says supply uncertainty and "a disproportionate amount of demand" has created a perfect storm. He says of suppliers: "There's so much volatility in the price, that if they're unsure what they're buying it for then they need to make sure they don't sell it at a loss. "Again, that's contributing to higher prices as a result of the demand and the volatility." Both Phillips and Coverdale used Boiler Juice, which says it is the middle man rather than being responsible for any price hikes. Buckman advises people to make smaller purchases and conserve fuel where possible during this period of uncertainty. He adds: "Obviously, what's going on in the Middle East has massively impacted things." Additional reporting by Laura Devlin and Katy Prickett. Follow East of England news on X, Instagram and Facebook: BBC Beds, Herts & Bucks, BBC Cambridgeshire, BBC Essex, BBC Norfolk, BBC Northamptonshire or BBC Suffolk. The bishop of Chelmsford reflects on her visit to a church in the West Bank. Matt Critchley posts his highest County Championship score as Essex overwhelme Hampshire on day two. The author says her book was an aid to open up the conversation around gender, sexuality and identity. Airport bosses want to encourage greener travel, but some taxi drivers are accusing them of greed. From helium balloons to cute pooches - how many questions can you get right? Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US has loosened sanctions preventing other countries buying Russian oil and petroleum already loaded on vessels at sea to try to ease the energy supply crunch sparked by the US-Israel war with Iran. US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said the "short-term measure" was aimed at promoting "stability in global energy markets". Despite the announcement, oil prices continued to hover around $100 (£75) a barrel again on Friday, while stock markets outside the US fell. The move also drew criticism from leaders in Europe and Canada, who warned it would help Putin's regime. Attacks on ships and energy infrastructure in the Gulf, as well as the effective closure of the Strait of Hormuz, have rocked global energy markets, creating an unprecedented supply crunch. But German Chancellor Friedrich Merz said on Friday that he believed it was wrong to ease sanctions now, adding that his country's support for Ukraine would not be "deterred or distracted" by the war in Iran. French President Emmanuel Macron has also said that the Strait of Hormuz's shutdown "in no way" justified lifting the sanctions on Russia, while Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney said sanctions on Russia and its shadow fleet should be maintained. UK Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper, speaking during a visit to Saudi Arabia, accused Russia and Iran of trying to "hijack the global economy", pointing to links between the two countries. However, she refrained from criticising the US decision to ease sanctions on Russian oil, describing it as a "specific, targeted issue". About a fifth of the world's oil typically passes through the Strait of Hormuz, a narrow channel between Iran and Oman. But the violence has left tankers stranded for roughly two weeks and forced oil producers to start cutting output. That has driven up prices and caused strains around the world, including the US, where US President Donald Trump was already facing pressure over economic issues. US Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth said on Friday that the US was working to clear the Strait of Hormuz, after attacks on three cargo ships and Iran's leader vowed to keep blocking the channel. A move from the International Energy Agency (IEA) on Wednesday to ease the pressure, pledging to release a record 400 million barrels of oil, including 172 million barrels contributed by the US, failed to lower the oil price. Trump and other officials have also said they will provide naval escorts to ships in the Strait "as soon as possible", without setting a timeline. The latest move to ease sanctions is expected to affect about 100 million barrels of Russian oil, which Russia said were currently in transit. Bessent said the temporary sanctions waiver would last until 11 April. The decision re-ignited concerns that the conflict in the Middle East may benefit Moscow and distract international attention from bringing to an end the war in Ukraine. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told a news conference in Paris on Friday that the decision by the US "could give Russia about $10bn (£753m) for the war", adding that it "certainly does not help peace", according to news agency AFP. At the same time, analysts said the decision was unlikely to do much to relieve the spike in oil prices. "Even the release of 400 million barrels of reserves announced recently didn't really put a dent in the oil price which is still up [at] around $100 a barrel," said Colin Walker, transport lead at the Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit (ECIU) think tank. UK energy minister Michael Shanks said the government would not follow the US in easing sanctions on Russian oil. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "What we absolutely can't have is Putin sitting in the Kremlin seeing this as a chance to invest in the war machine." But Kirill Dmitriev, Russian President Vladimir Putin's economic envoy, said the US was "effectively acknowledging the obvious: without Russian oil, the global energy market cannot remain stable". He added: "Amid the growing energy crisis, further easing of restrictions on Russian energy sources appears increasingly inevitable." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The UK's allies should maintain pressure on Moscow, Downing Street has said, after the US eased sanctions on some Russian oil. US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessant said the "tailored, short-term measure" was aimed at promoting "stability in the global energy markets" and "will not provide significant financial benefit to the Russian government". Earlier ministers confirmed the UK would not be following the US by loosening sanctions on Russian oil. Oil prices have surged since the Iran war broke out, with Tehran vowing to continue attacking the key shipping route of the Strait of Hormuz in retaliation for ongoing US-Israeli strikes. Prices have also been affected by attacks on energy infrastructure in Gulf countries. Asked whether the prime minister was disappointed by the US move to ease sanctions on Russian oil already in transit, his official spokesman said: "Ultimately, it's obviously a decision for the US, but our position is clear. All partners should maintain pressure on Russia and its war chest. "Our support for Ukraine is degrading Russia's ability to wage war around the globe, both militarily and financially. "The best way to continue to stop Russia supporting hostile actors is to continue on collective pressure and end the war in Ukraine." Earlier energy minister Michael Shanks told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "This is an absolutely critical moment in the Russian aggression against Ukraine and sanctions are important. "What we absolutely can't have is Putin sitting in the Kremlin thinking this is an opportunity to invest more in the war machine." Conservative leader Kemi Badenoch said it was "wrong to lift sanctions on Russian oil" but called on the government to start drilling in the North Sea to increase global oil supply. Liberal Democrat leader Sir Ed Davey criticised the President Trump for "helping Russia when he should be fighting them with Ukraine and Europe". He described it as "alarming" that President Putin appeared to be the "main beneficiary" of the US war with Iran. German Chancellor Friedrich Merz has said easing sanctions now is "wrong", while French President Emmanuel Macron said the shutdown of the Strait of Hormuz "in no way" justified the move. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has yet to comment on the US decision, but said on Tuesday that easing sanctions would be a "serious blow" for Ukraine and a "concession" to Russia that would allow it to buy more weapons. The rising price of oil has led to soaring bills for heating oil users and higher petrol prices for drivers. Energy Secretary Ed Miliband has told the BBC the government "will not tolerate" energy firms profiteering from the rising price of oil. He said the competition watchdog was primed to step in to prevent petrol price "rip-offs". Opposition parties have been calling for the government to ditch a hike of fuel duty planned for September. Miliband did not rule out direct support for households or extending the freeze on fuel duty if the conflict continued. Sign up for our Politics Essential newsletter to keep up with the inner workings of Westminster and beyond. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Police have warned that heating oil tanks could be targeted by thieves due to rising demand for the fuel caused by the US-Israel war with Iran. About 130,000 Scottish households use heating oil to warm their homes, and costs of deliveries rose after the start of the conflict late last month. Police in the Highlands and Islands have urged people to lock their tanks, and to consider installing CCTV, security lighting and having alarms fitted to gates to their properties. There have been fuel thefts reported in England and Northern Ireland in recent days. In a social media post, Police Scotland said: "Domestic heating oil, and other fuels for heating, are in demand since the war in the Middle East. "Consider the impact of having your heating oil stolen. "The house is cold, there's a waiting time for more to be delivered, prices are increasing, your boiler is damaged and requires costly repair, the theft goes unnoticed if the property is left unattended for a lengthy period." Bad weather has led to previous police warnings about fuel thefts. In January 2011, officers said a prolonged period of wintry weather saw a rise in heating oil thefts in Ross and Cromarty and Lochaber. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Dozens of countries have agreed to release a record amount of oil from their emergency reserves to try to tackle supply shortages and soaring prices. All 32 of the International Energy Agency's (IEA) members — including the UK, the US, and many of the world's richest nations — will release 400 million barrels to combat what the group said were challenges "unprecedented in scale". The US-Israel war with Iran has caused oil exports through the Strait of Hormuz, which carries 25% of global oil supplies by sea, to virtually stop and production in the region to slump. The oil price is nearly a quarter higher than when the war began and experts say the IEA's move would only be a short-term solution. The release is more than double the previous record amount released by the IEA's members following Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in early 2022. However, it would only amount to around three or four days' worth of global supply or roughly a fortnight's worth of what would normally be shipped out of the Strait of Hormuz. The IEA's member and associate countries represent two thirds of global energy production and 80% of consumption. Member countries are required to keep 90 days' worth of their nation's oil use in reserve in case of global disruption. Collectively, the members hold over 1.2 billion barrels in emergency stockpiles, with a further 600 million barrels of industry stocks held under government obligation. Releasing a third of the stocks its governments hold is not something that it can repeat frequently. The oil itself is not in a single place. For example, producers like Shell and BP keep stocks at terminals and refineries around the UK and can earmark stocks held elsewhere as counting towards their reserves. When it is released, it does not mean a sudden flood of new oil starts moving. Instead, producers will make more available in the market for refineries to order, though energy analysts have told the BBC that there is a shortage of refining capacity. The other issue with releasing reserves is that it is not something you can do again. "Once you release them, they don't exist," said Nick Butler, former head of strategy at oil giant BP. Jorge Leon, an energy analyst at Rystad Energy, said the release "helps but it doesn't fully offset that disruption". "Everyone knew there would be a release of emergency reserves [...] but prices haven't come down as much as you would expect," he added. Meanwhile, the IEA's executive director Fatih Birol said the decision will not help the global gas market, which he described as "very challenging". He said there are "few options" available to deal with a 20% slump in liquid natural gas (LNG) supplies caused by the conflict. The benchmark UK LNG price has shot up around 70% since the conflict began, though it remains far from the heights it reached following the Russia-Ukraine war. Energy Secretary Ed Miliband said: "The UK is playing our part in working with our international allies to address the disruption in oil markets." The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
There are calls for thousands of rural Scottish households that rely on heating oil to warm their homes to get better protection against "shock spikes" in costs. The US-Israel war with Iran saw oil prices soar at the start of March. About 142,000 Scottish households use heating oil and average costs in Scotland rose from 67.92p per litre on 28 February - the day US and Israel launched attacks on Iran - to 147p per litre by 8 March. David Watson, of Kyle of Sutherland Development Trust, said his area of the Highlands was particularly badly affected due to the high numbers of older people. He said: "These global shocks can impact really quickly on people." UK Energy Secretary Michael Shanks said there were regulations in place through the Competitions and Markets Authority (CMA), and added that further investigations of costs would be done if necessary. Heating oil does not have the same protection that is offered to some household gas and electricity bills through a price cap set by energy regulator Ofgem. Prices are influenced by Europe's jet aircraft fuel market because it is a kerosene-based product. Heating oil is also mostly supplied by refineries in the Middle East where fighting has disrupted production and exports. Watson said prices were two to three times what they were before the conflict. "One of the biggest issues for people is the cost of a minimum fill," he said. "If people have got an empty tank they have to be able to afford to get the oil out to them in the first place." He added: "We have longer winters here and a higher proportion of older people. "It's just spring and we could still have another two or three months of cold snaps, so when these shocks hit they hit hard and people worry about heating their homes." End Fuel Poverty Coalition said rural households were already facing the "deepest fuel poverty". Coordinator Simon Francis said: "The cost of heating is already high and the price of improving these homes to make them warmer and more efficient is often higher than average. "That means these households are even more exposed to sudden global price shocks driven by volatile fossil fuel markets and profiteering energy companies." Francis said the long-term answer was moving away from dependence on fossil fuels and greater use of alternative heating sources such as heat pumps and heat networks. Highland Fuels, one of Scotland's suppliers of heating oil, said it was experiencing "significant changes" in customer demand across Scotland. A spokesperson said: "We are aware that the recent developments in the Middle East are creating understandable concerns around fuel supply and pricing. "Like others across the fuel oil industry, we have seen an increase in inquiries from customers wishing to discuss their heating oil requirements." The spokesperson said because heating oil and jet aircraft fuel were both kerosene-based products the wholesale market was largely influenced by the jet fuel market in Europe. They added: "With heightened tensions in the Middle East and Europe's reliance on jet fuel supplies linked to the region, wholesale prices are currently moving rapidly. "In response to these market conditions, we are having to review and adjust sales pricing for customers more frequently than usual." Highland Fuels said some customers may experience slightly longer response times from its team, and it thanked customers for their trust and patience. It said fuel distribution association, UKIFDA, had published consumer guidance on heating oil price movements. Energy Secretary Michael Shanks said the UK government was closely monitoring heating oil prices. "We will continue to do so and we are in close contact with the CMA who regulate this space," he told BBC Scotland News. "If there is further action we need to take we will take it." Shanks said the UK government had been "very clear" that there should not be price gouging - increases by sellers higher than what is considered fair. He added: "First and foremost consumers should get the protections they are entitled to." In a meeting with MPs on Wednesday, Shanks said Chancellor Rachel Reeves had asked CMA to be "vigilant" to prices and recommend if further regulation of the sector was required. He also said there was a "strong supply" of heading oils across the UK. Ahead of the meeting, Seamus Logan, SNP MP for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East, told BBC Radio Scotland Breakfast one of his constituents had seen their bill rise from 62p per litre to 145p per litre, and was on a two-week waiting list for a delivery. Alistair Carmichael, Liberal Democrat MP for Orkney and Shetland, said consumers had faced similar cost rises after the Ukraine war started in 2022. "People need help in the here and now," he said. Harriet Cross, Conservative MP for Gordon and Buchan, said she had written to the CMA asking for an investigation into price increases. Even in 'normal' times, using oil is one of the most expensive ways to heat our homes. And it's also among the most environmentally damaging since the kerosene is essentially highly concentrated jet fuel. But outside urban areas, it's long been the only choice other than electricity. In the short term, there's probably little that can be done other than targeting those who are "price gouging" in the hope that it dissuades others. In the longer term, air source heat pumps might be the more reliable alternative where the cost of electricity to power the heat exchangers is regulated. To work effectively, properties need to be well insulated but that also applies to all homes that don't want to burn money unnecessarily. Analysis shows that while the savings from switching are marginal for gas users, those whose heating is fuelled by oil can save significantly. There is a pot of money available to help homeowners with the installation costs but it's finite and demand for heat pumps is growing. Environmental groups will hope that this second price shock in five years might be enough to convince more people to make the move. But heat pumps are also becoming a political football in this election year with some parties suggesting the country can't afford to change everyone's heating when times are tough. Additional reporting by Chris MacLennan and Alex Morrison. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The age at which people can start receiving the state pension is going up in stages over the next two years. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The triple lock guarantees that the state pension is not overtaken by inflation or wage increases. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Oil and gas prices fell sharply on Tuesday after US President Donald Trump said that the war in Iran was "very complete, pretty much". Crude almost reached $120 a barrel on Monday over fears that the conflict would cause lengthy disruption to energy supplies from the Middle East, but dropped back to below $90 following Trump's comments. Although oil prices are still significantly higher than they were before the war, global stock markets rebounded. The boss of Saudi Arabia's Aramco, the world's ‌biggest oil exporter, has warned of "catastrophic consequences" if the Strait of Hormuz, a shipping route crucial to global energy supplies, remains blocked. About a fifth of the world's oil usually passes through the narrow waterway, but traffic has all but halted since the war started more than a week ago. Aramco's chief executive, Amin Nasser, warned that global stockpiles of oil were at the lowest for five years and the supply bottleneck meant these would be used at a faster rate. "The longer the disruption goes on... the more drastic the consequences for the global economy," he ‌said. The volatility in the oil market continued on Tuesday. At one point, the benchmark price plunged to $82 per barrel after US Energy Secretary Chris Wright posted on X that the US had successfully escorted an oil tanker through the Strait of Hormuz. However, it soon jumped back to $86 after the post disappeared from his profile. The White House later confirmed the US Navy has not escorted any tankers through the crucial Gulf passage. The conflict could mean UK inflation ends the year closer to 3%, higher than the current 2% forecast, should energy prices stay as they are, the UK government's official forecaster warned on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the International Energy Agency (IEA) held a second meeting with G7 nations on Tuesday to discuss options for stabilising the global oil market, including releasing millions of barrels of crude from countries' stocks. On Monday, Trump told a news conference in Florida: "We took a little excursion because we felt we had to do that to get rid of some evil. Then, I think you'll see it's going to be a short-term excursion." He later wrote on social media: "If Iran does anything that stops the flow of Oil within the Strait of Hormuz, they will be hit by the United States of America TWENTY TIMES HARDER than they have been hit thus far." The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps said "in response to Trump's nonsense", Iran's armed forces will "not allow the export of a single litre of oil from the region". Trump's comments raised hopes that the war would not be drawn-out, and Brent crude fell to $88.80. However, it is still much higher than it was before the US-Israel war with Iran began on 28 February when Brent was priced at around $73 a barrel. The surge in oil prices since the war began has been feeding through to pump prices in the US and the UK. In the US, average petrol prices have risen above $3.50 per US gallon from about $2.92 a month ago, while diesel had risen from $3.66 to $4.78 over the same period, according to the American Automobile Association. In the UK, average UK petrol prices have hit 138.95p a litre while diesel has hit 155.12p, having risen by 6.12p and 12.74p respectively since the end of last month, according motoring firm the RAC. Gas also dropped, with UK prices for month-ahead delivery falling sharply to 119p a therm, well below Monday's peak of 171p. The fall in oil prices has given traders a moment to "exhale", but energy markets remain in a state of "total tug-of-war", said Alberto Bellorin, founder and managing director oil and gas investment firm InterCapital Energy. Oil trading will "remain incredibly twitchy", he said, and prices are likely to spike if the conflict escalates and fall if it seems to be easing. The hopes of a swift end to the conflict lifted European stock markets. London's FTSE 100 rose 1.6%, Germany's Dax index climbed 2.3% and the French Cac 40 rose 1.8%. Earlier in Asia, Japan's Nikkei 225 had closed up 2.9%, recovering some of Monday's losses, while South Korea's Kospi gained 5.4%. US markets fell slightly, with the S&P 500 and Dow Jones closing down by 0.2% and 0.1% respectively. On Monday, G7 nations said they were ready to take "necessary measures" to address the global supply of energy in the light of surging oil prices. But Robin Mills, chief executive of Qamar Energy, an energy consultancy based in Dubai, told the BBC that there was a reluctance to release oil from stockpiles too early as "once the strategic reserves are gone, they're gone". However, he acknowledged it was a tough decision. "If you believe the war is over, as Donald Trump says, then you don't need to use them. But if you believe the disruption is continuing, now is the time to put a bit of oil back and calm the market," he said. Chancellor Rachel Reeves on Monday called for "immediate de-escalation" in the Middle East and guaranteed security for vessels in the region. "I stand ready to support a co-ordinated release of collective IEA oil reserves," she said. Before the Iran war, financial markets had been expecting a cut in UK interest rates at some point this year. But these expectations vanished after the spike in oil prices raised the prospect of higher inflation. The yield, or interest rate, on two-year government bonds - which indicates how much it would cost to borrow money for two years - was down to 3.86% having peaked at 4.15% on Monday. Before the conflict began the yield stood at 3.5%. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An oil executive has welcomed a fall in oil prices after "eight days of panic buying" as a result of the war in the Middle East. Duncan Lambert, managing director of Hull-based Rix Petroleum, said a surge in purchases by those who use oil for their household heating systems had caused a "supply crisis". Crude almost reached $120 a barrel on Monday over fears the conflict would cause lengthy disruption to energy supplies, but dropped back to about $92 earlier after US President Donald Trump said the war was "very complete, pretty much". The UK and Ireland Fuel Distribution Association said many households were placing orders because of the war but its advice was to "delay purchasing". Households use oil to heat their homes and water if their property is not connected to a gas supply. Typically, homes that use oil are in a more rural or isolated location. More than 40% of homes use heating oil in some rural parts of Lincolnshire, including Wainfleet All Saints, Wragby, Roughton and Ludford, according to Census data. The figure is more than 20% in some parts of East Yorkshire, including Cherry Burton, Leconfield and Middleton. Lambert said the company had sold two million litres of oil per day last week - almost three times its average sales of 700,000 litres per day. However, he said many of the purchases were unnecessary. "We are arriving at customer homes who have ordered oil for their heating system, and there is not enough space in their tank. Our delivery drivers cannot fit it in," he said. "I spoke to one customer on the phone who asked my advice on what he should do. I asked him, 'how much have you got left in your tank?' He replied: 'enough to last until August.' "I have been in the industry 40 years and I have never seen anything like it." Donald Potter said he got a shock when he ordered oil to heat the bungalow near Grimsby he shares with his wife. Potter bought oil in January at a price of 60p per litre. Last Monday, he said he ordered a refill and the price had risen to 96.5p per litre. That resulted in a £200 increase in the usual cost of refilling his tank, he said. Potter questioned why the price had risen so rapidly, just days after the war began, adding: "Surely, that oil that I ordered must have been in the UK already. Why has it gone up so fast?" However, Lambert said distributors do not keep a stock of oil and only buy in what they need to fulfil the next day's order. "We are just milk men. We are wholly dependent on the price and supply that is presented to us. It has been just increase after increase," he explained. "It normally causes a big shock if the price rises by one pence in a day. On Tuesday, we saw it rise by 28p on that day alone." Lambert said he felt positive about the most recent price falls. He said: "My biggest concern is that we might have to ration people. I want people to be sensible so that we don't have to do that. "This is a very precarious supply chain." Listen to highlights from Hull and East Yorkshire or Lincolnshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The impact of the US and Israel's war in Iran is starting to hit home — no matter where you live. As the conflict blocks oil, gas, and other exports from the Gulf region, and producers start to cut output, the supply shock has sent prices soaring. This has rattled financial markets. However, it is also affecting people's day-to-day lives, with prices for petrol and diesel at the pump already rising. And the effects could get wider still with the possibility that everything from food prices to holidays could become pricier. Analysts have also raised the possibility of an economic downturn, with some countries more at risk than others. "This is essentially the biggest supply shock at least in modern global oil market history," said Hunter Kornfeind, senior macro energy analyst of Rapid Energy Group. Motorists across the world are feeling this at the pump. In the US, average petrol prices have risen above $3.50 (£2.60) per US gallon, from about $2.92 a month ago, while diesel had risen from $3.66 to $4.78 over the same period, according to the American Autombile Association. In the UK, the most recent data from the RAC motoring organisation shows that since the war began, average UK petrol prices have risen by 4.95p to 137.78p a litre. Diesel has increased by 9.43p to 151.81p. There is normally a time lag, with movements in oil markets taking about a fortnight to feed in to fuel prices. Meanwhile, the Gulf is where Europe gets around half of its jet fuel from. The disruption has caused the continent's benchmark jet fuel price to almost double to its highest level since the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Fuel typically makes up 20-40% of airlines' operating costs. This means flights could become more expensive, while any shortage of fuel could mean some flight cancellations. However, the impact might not be equal across the board. Many European airlines use contracts to get their fuel at fixed or capped prices for months, or even years, in advance. By contrast, a number of large US carriers do not do this and could be exposed to short-term price increases as a result. United Airlines boss Scott Kirby recently warned that a jump in air fares due to the higher costs would "probably start quick". But the economic pain could spread quickly. If the conflict is not resolved by the end of the month, analysts say that it could push global oil prices above the recent 2022 peaks seen after Russia's invasion of Ukraine. In some scenarios, analysts said the price could hit $150 per barrel. Kornfeind said that the knock-on impact for the economy would be "pretty drastic" at that point, as higher costs force households and businesses to reduce other spending and the wider economy slows. For example, analysts are worried the energy crunch could reduce chip-making - a sector with ramifications for everything from cars to smartphones, since Taiwan, a hub of production, relies heavily on energy imports. In the US, some have also raised concerns that a jump in energy costs could weigh on tech firms trying to build out their artificial intelligence (AI) infrastructure, hitting a key driver of economic growth. Analysts say the economic risks are greatest in Asia and Europe, which both rely on energy imports, unlike the US which is a top oil and gas producer. Some governments in Asia, a top destination for much of the oil and gas coming from the Middle East, have already announced price caps and rationing measures, with universities in Bangladesh closing early for the Eid ⁠al-Fitr holidays, according to state media. The risks have been reflected in the stock market, with Asian and European indexes hit especially hard. In Japan and South Korea, for example, the main stock indexes have fallen by roughly 10% and 15% respectively since the war began, while Germany's Dax has fallen by more than 7%. By contrast, the S&P 500 in the US has fallen just 1.2%. However, energy is not the only commodity that has been affected. The Middle East is also a major source of aluminium and sulphur used to process metals such as copper, and ingredients for fertiliser, including urea. As prices for those commodities start to creep higher, the pressure could feed through to the costs of food and manufactured goods. In the US, about 25% of fertiliser imports enter the US in the months of March and April, as planting season starts, according to the American Farm Bureau Federation. "It could not come at a worse time," said farmer Harry Ott, who grows cotton, corn and soybeans in South Carolina. He called his fertiliser supplier last week, aiming to start applying it to his fields, only to be told that the business was holding off on sales and deliveries until it had a better handle on the impact of the war. The business has since announced a price hike, which he fears will raise his fertiliser bill by roughly $100 per acre and wipe out his chance of making any profit on this year's crop. "These are trying times and what we are going through now on fertiliser... was totally unexpected," Ott said in a briefing for reporters hosted by the Farm Bureau. "Nobody's balance sheet had room to make these adjustments." Ott's business is yet another unexpected victim of a conflict that affects us all. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
It has been the most volatile day of oil trading in world history. The oil price spiralled to almost $120 a barrel at one point early on Monday, but word soon emerged of an emergency meeting of the G7 finance ministers. Reports suggested there could be a 300 million-barrel release of emergency stockpiles co-ordinated by the International Energy Agency. The speculation alone was enough to temper the rise in prices a bit, but they remained much higher than pre-conflict levels. Then, however, we heard what sounded like a pivot away from a long-run war by US President Donald Trump, and the oil price went into freefall, dipping below Friday's close. When Tuesday's trading day started in Asia the oil price was hovering around $90. The spiral up can be of little surprise of course when millions of barrels of crude oil are shut in to the Gulf, and when most Gulf countries are now - at best - reporting a slowing of their production, and at worst declaring force majeure shutdowns - a clause freeing them from liability for failure to supply due to events outside their control. However, this also has the potential to be the biggest oil shock in history. Three hundred million barrels is a massive number. It would have been more than double the record previous intervention made in April 2022 after Russia's invasion of Ukraine. It is effectively less than three days of global oil consumption (104 million barrels a day), about a fortnight of normal Strait of Hormuz traffic. These reserves have been tapped only five times before. This would have represented a quarter of stockpiles. The G7 finance ministers may not all agree, and they decided against tapping the reserves immediately. Other support is required. Will all ministers want naval escorts through the Strait of Hormuz? Does a new system of insurance solve the problems when drones and missiles are whizzing in the skies above the tankers, and occasionally targeting them? Meanwhile, the US has been pushing the idea that Russia could form part of a solution, through the use of waivers against sanctions for Putin's war against Ukraine. As powerful as the G7 is, China, India, and South Korea remain the key customers for physical supply of Gulf oil and gas. As such, gas tankers from the US that had been bound for Europe are now doing Atlantic U-turns and heading for the Panama Canal to deliver to Asia instead. And what about jet fuels and the raw materials which make fertiliser also shut in to the Gulf? After the G7 meeting, the chancellor told the House of Commons that the best way to help consumers would be a de-escalation of military tensions. The markets have read that into President Trump's comments. Even if the war stopped today, there is still havoc in supply chains, and damage done to energy infrastructure, that will take weeks to unpick. Nonetheless, it does seem that economic considerations are restraining President Trump, as gasoline prices for his core voters spike with the crude oil price. For now the war has not stopped, the markets are calmer, but the situation remains volatile. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
G7 nations have said they are ready to take "necessary measures" to support the global supply of energy after the US-Israel war with Iran sent oil prices surging. However, a meeting of G7 finance ministers and the International Energy Agency (IEA) ended without an agreement to release strategic crude reserves. The oil price reached nearly $120 a barrel on Monday, over fears of a lengthy disruption to supplies, before falling back sharply after President Trump raised hopes the war would soon end. At the virtual meeting, the option of releasing oil from stockpiles was one of several discussed as Fatih Birol, head of the IEA, said global oil markets "have deteriorated in recent days". Birol said: "In addition to the challenges of transit through the Strait of Hormuz, a substantial amount of oil production has been curtailed. This is creating significant and growing risks for the market. "IEA member countries currently hold over 1.2 billion barrels of public emergency oil stocks, with a further 600 million barrels of industry stocks held under government obligation." Following the meeting, French finance minister Roland Lescure said, "we are not there yet," on the question of whether emergency stocks will be released. If reserves are released it would be the first time since 2022 following Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. In a statement following the meeting, the G7 said: "We stand ready to take necessary measures, including to support global supply of energy such as stockpile release." Chancellor Rachel Reeves said on Monday the UK used the meeting to call for "immediate de-escalation" in the Middle East and guaranteed security for ships in the region. "I stand ready to support a co-ordinated release of collective IEA oil reserves," she added. Major disruption to energy supplies from the region threatens to push up prices for consumers and businesses around the world. Rising inflation could lead to fewer interest rate cuts by central banks. About a fifth of the world's oil supply is usually shipped through the Strait of Hormuz. But traffic through the narrow passage has all but halted since the war started more than a week ago. The US and Israel launched fresh waves of airstrikes across Iran over the weekend, hitting multiple targets including oil depots. Meanwhile, Iran targeted energy infrastructure in neighbouring Gulf states. Overnight, Saudi Arabia said it had intercepted and destroyed two waves of drones heading towards a major oilfield. Last week the markets had been relatively relaxed about the seemingly nightmare scenario of millions of barrels of crude and liquefied gas trapped in the Gulf. But the escalations over the weekend, alongside scenes of destruction of energy infrastructure both in Iran and across the Gulf, saw the markets take rapid fright. On Monday morning in Asia, the price of Brent crude jumped by more than 25% to touch $119.50 a barrel at one point before dropping below $90 after Trump told CBS the "war is very complete, pretty much". The US president has previously dismissed concerns about rising oil prices. On Sunday, he posted on his Truth Social platform: "Short term oil prices, which will drop rapidly when the destruction of the Iran nuclear threat is over, is a very small price to pay for U.S.A., and World, Safety and Peace.  ONLY FOOLS WOULD THINK DIFFERENTLY!" "The question everyone is asking themselves is, what is the duration of this conflict?" Paul Gooden, head of natural resources at NinetyOne Asset Management, told the BBC's Today programme. "The longer it goes on, the more nervous the oil markets are going to be." He added that the oil price could rise to a level where "you see so-called demand destruction", where consumers cut back their consumption of oil, which he considered to be $120-$150 a barrel. "I think temporarily you could see an oil price in that range. I don't think it can stay there... at some point there'll be a resolution." Gas prices also jumped. UK gas prices for month-ahead delivery surged by nearly 25% to 171p a therm when trading started on Monday, before slipping back to about 149p a therm. Gas prices have now almost doubled since before the war in Iran began, although they remain well below the 640p peak reached in 2022 following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. US stock markets opened lower but rebounded later in the day, with the S&P 500 closing 0.8% higher and the Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the day up by 0.5%. London's FTSE 100 index recovered to end the day down just 0.3%, having initially fallen by as much as 1.86% to its lowest level for nearly two months. Oil giants were among the biggest risers in London, with Shell's shares climbing by 2.4% on Monday, and BP's gaining 1.9%. Elsewhere, Germany's benchmark Dax index fell by 0.8% on Monday, while France's CAC 40 ended the day 1% lower. Earlier, Japan's Nikkei 225 index had dropped 5.2%, while South Korea's Kospi index closed down 6%. UK government borrowing costs have continued to rise as markets rethink the prospects for interest rates. Before the conflict, rate cuts had been expected this year but given the expected impact of the oil price surge on inflation financial markets now think there is a chance of a rate rise by the end of the year. The UK interest rate is currently 3.75%. On Monday, the yield - or interest rate - on two-year government bonds, which indicates how much it would cost to borrow money for two years, rose to 4.09% from 3.88%. The yield on benchmark 10-year bonds has now risen to 4.72%, up from a rate of about 4.3% before the conflict began. Adnan Mazarei from the Peterson Institute for International Economics said the jump in oil prices was expected, given how production has been halted in some Gulf countries and the signs of a prolonged conflict in the region. "People are realising that this won't end quickly," he said, adding that the promises of insurances and objectives laid out by the US are "becoming more unrealistic." Additional reporting by Osmond Chia You can also send us your questions by following this link The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Some Cornwall residents say their home heating oil bills have more than doubled since the Iranian conflict began. They said the price for a litre of oil had risen from about 62p at the beginning of the month to £1.30 on Friday. Pauline Trubody, who lives in Porkellis near Helston, said on Friday she had been quoted a cost of £724 for 500 litres (110 gallons) of oil and if this trend continued, she would not be able to afford to heat her home. Oil distributors have urged people to only buy what they need and believed prices could drop back down when events linked to the war settled. After the conflict started, Iran warned vessels not to pass through the Strait of Hormuz in the Persian Gulf. About 20% of the world's oil and gas is shipped through the strait, but marine traffic has slowed in recent days. Trubody said she felt some oil firms were trying to "make a fast buck" from the situation. She added: "You have to look at the pennies and see how far they stretch and if they don't stretch, then what do you do?" Ruth Goodman, who lives in Shortlanesend near Truro, said she did not understand how the high price rises could be justified. "If you haven't got any other source of heating, just what do you do?" Ken Cronin, chief executive of the UK & Ireland Fuel Distributors Association, said as heating oil was a kerosene fuel, it was connected with jet fuel on European markets. Cronin said: "Jet fuel has doubled in price since the conflict and most of the reason why is because Europe last year depended on about 40% of jet fuel coming from the Middle East." John Weedon, director of Cornish distributor oil Mitchell and Webber, said the firm was "astounded" to see such sharp price increases from major oil suppliers, but it had been able to delay increases to its customers for a short period while its stocks lasted. He said historically, prices had dropped "rapidly" after events during conflicts had calmed. "At the moment, we would say the best policy is to only order what you really need," Weedon added. Follow BBC Cornwall on X, Facebook and Instagram. Send your story ideas to spotlight@bbc.co.uk. Police chief James Vaughan says he is committed to restoring frontline officer numbers. Cornwall's Chamber of Commerce president says the route generated most of the airport's revenue. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Skye Owen was hospitalised for four weeks in September 2024 after getting sepsis. Organisers say entries capture memorable moments along the South West Coast Path. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Rural residents using oil tanks to fuel their homes say they are feeling the pinch of the war in Iran. The UK is heavily reliant on oil and gas imports and prices have surged since the US and Israel began attacking Iran earlier this month. Iran previously warned vessels not to pass through the Strait of Hormuz in the Persian Gulf, through which about 20% of the world's oil and gas is shipped. Mum-of-three Dominique Shepherd, who lives near Thirsk, said she "wanted to cry" when she found out the price of topping up her oil tank had doubled. "If I had just ordered it when it was at £300 things would be a lot simpler, a lot easier," she said. "We just don't have that money lying around." Heating oil is often used in homes across the UK and Ireland that are not connected to the gas grid. Shepherd said the cost of oil was normally between £600 and £700 for 1,000 litres, but it had jumped to £1,258 as of last week, with prices expected to continue rising. "It's a big worry because we then have to cut back on certain things like family days out with the children," she said. The UK and Ireland Fuel Distributors Association (UKIFDA) said there had been a "rapid rise in wholesale prices, which, in turn, has increased the price distributors pay for heating oil and, consequently, raised prices for customers". Delivery times had also been affected by higher-than-usual demand, it added. The organisation said: "The situation in the Middle East is changing quickly, making it difficult to predict how prices will move in the coming weeks. "If your tank is running low, the best approach is to order as normal." In the village of Alne, near York, Bob Hayes runs a cooperative which makes group purchases of heating oil at wholesale price, which helps keep costs lower due to bulk buying and fewer deliveries. Hayes said being part of a cooperative was "far better than going to a fuel retailer". "When prices are very fluctuant, as they are at the moment, that contingency [distributors add to cover cost rises] can be quite significant." In a letter written to UKIFDA CEO Ken Cronin, Minister for Energy Michael Shanks said the Competition and Markets Authority would investigate whether customers were being treated fairly over the increase in prices. In the letter, which has also been signed by the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero Ed Miliband, the pair said their "firm expectation is that pricing remains fair, transparent and fully justifiable, reflecting genuine market conditions". Elsewhere, in the world of agriculture, farming vloggers Martin and Craig Blakey, from Church Fenton, warned the price of red diesel - used to power agricultural machinery - had risen from 72p a litre last week to more than £1. Craig said: "It's a perfect storm. "March is here, land is starting to dry up, tractors will be out burning diesel and it's going up faster than a space shuttle taking off." "Farmers generally, it's going to hit very hard," added Martin. Listen to highlights from North Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, catch up with the latest episode of Look North. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
People who heat their rural homes using oil tanks have reported prices doubling amid the conflict in the Middle East. The UK is heavily reliant on oil and gas imports and prices have jumped since the US and Israel began attacking Iran on Saturday. Iran previously warned vessels not to pass through the Strait of Hormuz in the Persian Gulf, through which about 20% of the world's oil and gas is shipped. Jacky Smith, from Monks Eleigh in Suffolk, said the price of oil to heat her home had increased and, if it continued, she would not be able order more. "It cost me about £420, it always used to cost me £350 for 500 litres," she told BBC Radio Suffolk's Wayne Bavin breakfast show. "Luckily it's being delivered today and they're sticking to my price because I looked at it a few days later for a comparison and it had gone up to £620 within a week. "I live in quite a small house and [my order] is usually every six months. "But I did get a note from the people I get my oil from yesterday saying however much I've ordered, I will only get 500 litres. "So if people with big tanks have ordered 1,000 litres, they won't be getting it." The Middle East is a region that plays a key role in global energy supplies and shipping routes. The UK does get oil from the North Sea, but most of this is exported as it does not have adequate refinery capabilities to make it usable, therefore the country relies heavily on imports from elsewhere. According to provider BoilerJuice, it is predominantly those living in rural and off-grid areas that are not on the gas supply network that rely on heating oil - usually stored in a tank in the garden that supplies their boiler. The firm had seen a price increase of about 117% in recent days. As well as this, 2021 Census data shows that seven out of 10 areas where heating oil is most commonly used are found in the East of England. Qatar's energy minister, Saad al-Kaabi, also told the Financial Times he expected all oil and gas exporters in the Gulf to stop production within days due to the conflict. Rachel MacSweeney, based in Winterton, Norfolk, has two holiday cottages and her own house, all of which use heating oil. She told BBC Radio Norfolk's Rob Butler she ordered 500 litres for her own house on 25 February which cost her just over £340. But on Tuesday, when she ordered for one of her cottages, she ran into issues. "I went to my regular supplier and couldn't order anything online - they weren't taking online orders," she explained. "I called them and they quoted a delivery time of 15 days, which is unusual; they weren't able to give me a price, but added my name to a waiting list. "That same evening I tried an online comparison website. Again no oil available from the 200 suppliers they checked, so at this point I'm starting to panic because we need oil." She tried again later that night and found 500 litres for a cost of £658. When she looked again the next day the price had risen to £750. She said she had to consider closing up one of her cottages and added that if prices did continue to rise, she would have to find alternative heating methods. The alarm felt by MacSweeney is not surprising, but suppliers warn against panic-buying. Ben Leworthy, from New Era Energy of Harlow, Essex, said: "The more people panic, the more the demand goes up." He said oil was still coming into the UK, but he was "starting to see the ships being stuck, and that will have a knock-on effect". "Supply might struggle a little bit for the next two weeks, but we're not seeing too much at the moment," he added. Ken Cronin is the chief executive of UKIFDA - the Fuel Distribution Association. He said the price of both crude oil and jet fuel, both of which are kerosene-based, had gone up since the start of the conflict. Cronin explained that heating oil is priced against jet fuel in European markets and 40% of Europe's jet fuel was imported from the Middle East. "The big issue is that the majority of heating oil distributors across the UK are small family-run businesses," he explained. "They don't hold a huge amount of stock on the sites that they own, so they're constantly going to the import terminals, refineries, to pick up the stock for their customers. "The price that we are paying is the price on the day and that is the reason why you're seeing such a big increase so quickly." Energy Minister Michael Shanks said the government understood the worry families were facing. "As the energy secretary said yesterday, this government has shown our determination to help working people and continue to do so," he said. "Any price gouging will not be tolerated – and industry leaders were in full agreement on this. "We keep the situation under close review and stand ready to support consumers." Follow Suffolk news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. More than 100 protesters create a blockade outside RAF Lakenheath during a six-day peace camp. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Work to clear up tyres and oil dumped by "disgusting" fly-tippers is expected to cost upwards of £500,000, a National Highways boss has said. The spill was discovered beside the A14 north of Woodford in Northamptonshire and was reported to authorities on 28 December 2025. The Environment Agency estimated that the dumped oil was comparable to "1,000 bathtubs" and work was expected to continue for several weeks to restore the area. Ian Doust, National Highways programme development manager, said "tens of thousands" had already been spent on clearing up the damage and that there was a "much bigger hidden cost that we haven't been able to work out". "This takes people away from their normal jobs," he added. "Every pound we spend here clearing up after this person [fly-tipper] is money we can't spend on potholes, grass cutting, litter clearing and all of the other work we have to do." He said: "We can only spend every pound once. "Taxpayers are paying for this, this has just come from someone who didn't want to pay their landfill licence." Heavy rain so far this year has hampered the clean-up operation and containment booms were put in place in a bid to prevent the oil spilling into the River Nene. Work is now ongoing to clear trees and scrape soil away so it can be decontaminated. Doust said that the agency was working to avoid its "worst fear" of the spill having caused structural damage to the A14, which could see a lane on the westbound carriageway closed for access and additional work. He added: "It's disgusting. How anybody could think this is an acceptable way to behave... I just can't get my head around it at all." Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The clean-up of a lake after a "deliberate oil dump" is continuing, a council has said. North Northamptonshire Council said the contamination was discovered at Oakley Vale Lake, Corby, on Friday and that it did not believe it had had an adverse effect on the lake's fish. It is the third time an incident like this has happened, as oil was also spilt in the same location in November 2025 and March 2024. The local authority said it did not know who was responsible and that it continued to monitor the swans at the lake. It said its contractors had deployed booms and mats as part of the clean-up and warned people to keep their dogs and children away from the water. In a separate incident in the county, an oil spill was reported beside the A14 near Woodford in December 2025. Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The plan aims to identify needs earlier and support parents. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US military has boarded a second oil tanker in the Indian Ocean, after tracking it from the Caribbean Sea where it was suspected of helping Venezuela avoid US sanctions. The boarding of the Panamanian-flagged Veronica III is the second such US interception in the Indian Ocean in the past week. It comes amid a US crackdown on sanctioned oil exports from Venezuela. "Distance does not protect you," the Pentagon said in a statement, alongside video and photos which appear to show the US raid. At least seven oil tankers have been seized by the US since last year, as the Trump administration moves to control the supply of Venezuelan oil. The Pentagon statement on Sunday defined the operation as "a right-of-visit, maritime interdiction and boarding". The statement did not say whether the US had seized the vessel, or allowed it to continue on its journey. "The vessel tried to defy President Trump's quarantine - hoping to slip away," the Pentagon statement said. "We tracked it from the Caribbean to the Indian Ocean, closed the distance, and shut it down. "No other nation has the reach, endurance, or will to do this. International waters are not sanctuary. By land, air, or sea, we will find you and deliver justice." The Veronica III is currently under sanctions imposed by the US Treasury Department. The Veronica III departed Venezuela on 3 January, according to monitoring group TankerTrackers.com - the same day that the US captured Venezuelan President Nicholas Maduro in a raid on his presidential compound in Caracas The ship was carrying 1.9 million barrels of crude oil at the time of departure, the group says, adding that it is believed to have been involved in the transport of Russian, Iranian and Venezuelan oil since 2023. Last week, the US announced that it had boarded and inspected the Aquila II, which US forces had "tracked and hunted" to the Indian Ocean. In December, US President Donald Trump said that he was ordering a "blockade" of sanctioned oil tankers entering and leaving Venezuela, a move the Venezuelan government at the time described as "theft". The US blockade has sharply curtailed Venezuelan oil exports, with only ships associated with Chevron and bound for the US operating as usual. Loadings had fallen roughly by half in January to about 400,000 barrels per day, Matt Smith, head of US analysis at analytics firm Kpler, told the BBC last month. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An annual cigar festival in Cuban capital Havana has become the latest casualty of a fuel shortage caused by a US oil blockade. The organising committee of the Festival del Habano announced on Saturday that this year's event - which was due to take place over five days in late February - would be postponed until further notice. It said the decision was motivated "by the complex economic situation" facing Cuba due to the "economic, commercial and financial blockade" by the US. A fuel shortage causing power cuts on the Caribbean island has been worsened by the US seizing oil shipments from Cuba's long-standing ally Venezuela. Cuba also has a shortage of aviation fuel, leading several airlines to suspend services there, while some countries, including the UK, have warned against non-essential travel to the island. Cuban cigars are regarded as among the finest in the world, but are illegal in the US due to long-standing American trade embargoes. More than 1,300 people from around 70 countries are estimated to attend the Habano Festival each year to sample cigars from Cuba's producers, as well as visit tobacco plantations and factories. With international tourism to the island nation limited by the US embargo, the festival's organisers said they hoped to wait until conditions had improved. The organising committee said it was working on setting a new date, which has yet to be announced. "The priority of the Habano Festival is to offer its participants a comprehensive experience at the height of the relevance and prestige that this event represents internationally," it said. "The postponement of this celebration is a measure aimed at protecting this experience." Venezuela was previously believed to have sent around 35,000 barrels of oil a day to Cuba before the US military seized former president Nicolás Maduro on 3 January. Power cuts lasting up to 18 hours a day have since affected hospital emergency wards, dialysis patients and pumping stations. US President Donald Trump has urged Cuban leaders to "make a deal" or face unspecified consequences. UN human rights experts have described Washington's restrictions on Cuba's oil imports as an "extreme form of unilateral economic coercion". The US and Cuba have had a strained relationship since the communist Fidel Castro overthrew a US-backed government in 1959. US economic and trade embargoes on Cuba have been in place since 1960. While steps were taken to improve diplomatic relations, particularly under former US President Barack Obama, the Trump administration has reversed many of these moves. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A fire at an oil refinery in Cuba has been brought under control quickly, as the country faces a deepening fuel crisis. Black smoke clouds could be seen billowing from the Ñico López Refinery in the capital, Havana, on Friday. No-one was injured and an investigation into the blaze has been established, Cuba's energy ministry said in a post on X. The fire occurred close to where two oil tankers had been moored in Havana Bay. A fuel shortage in Cuba has been worsened by the US blocking oil shipments from Venezuela, a long-standing ally in the region, to the island. Venezuela was previously believed to have sent it around 35,000 barrels of oil a day before the US military captured former president Nicolás Maduro in a raid on the Venezuelan capital, Caracas, on 3 January. The US also confiscated Venezuelan oil tankers, cutting off key supplies of fuel to Cuba, and pledged new tariffs on countries that sell oil to Cuba. US President Donald Trump has urged Cuban leaders to "make a deal" or face unspecified consequences, after flows of oil and money from Venezuela were cut off. Electricity cuts have impacted hospital emergency wards, dialysis patients and pumping stations amid the latest supply shortfalls. Cuba also has a shortage of aviation fuel, leading several airlines to suspend services to the Caribbean island nation, while some countries, including the UK, have warned against non-essential travel there. "Authorities have introduced fuel rationing, scaled back public services, and made temporary changes to healthcare, education, transport and tourism operations to conserve severely limited energy supplies," the UK Foreign Office warned recently. As the oil embargo continues to make life and access to essentials difficult in Cuba, two Mexican ships carrying 800 tonnes of humanitarian aid arrived in Havana Bay on Thursday. United Nations human rights experts have described Washington's restrictions on Cuba's oil imports as an "extreme form of unilateral economic coercion". UN human rights chief Volker Türk said he was "extremely concerned" about the worsening crisis in Cuba. The US and Cuba have had a strained relationship since the communist Fidel Castro overthrew a US-backed government in 1959. US economic and trade embargoes on Cuba have been in place since 1960. While steps were taken to improve diplomatic relations, particularly under former US President Barack Obama, the Trump administration has reversed many of these moves. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Listen to Paul read this article On 26 January, staff in an office in Mumbai received an urgent e-mail from a crew member aboard a tanker off the coast of Singapore. The email, purportedly written on behalf of five colleagues aboard the tanker sailing under the name Beeta, contained a litany of complaints: crew members, it was alleged, had not been paid and were being treated "like animals"; and provisions were running low. The staff in Mumbai worked for the International Transport Workers Federation (ITF), the world's leading organisation representing seafarers, and were used to dealing with complaints from all corners of the globe. But what caught their eye was the fact that the emails hadn't just been copied to multiple ITF offices, but also to sanctions enforcement bodies in several countries. "The vessel is sanctioned and blacklisted," the sailor wrote. He said he had discovered that the vessel calling itself the Beeta was in fact an American-sanctioned tanker called the Gale. The sailor and his colleagues were desperate to leave. "I've been at sea for many years," he told the BBC when we contacted him. "I know what's right and wrong." Inadvertently, the crew member had found himself involved in a problem at the heart of some of today's most contentious geopolitical issues: a surging number of tankers, transporting Russian and Iranian oil, operating outside maritime rules, using a variety of methods to conceal their identities. This "shadow fleet", as it's known, is growing fast. Estimates vary, but the latest data from the monitoring group TankerTrackers.com says the fleet currently consists of 1,468 vessels, roughly triple its size at the time of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine four years ago. That's about 18-19% of the total internationally trading tanker fleet, carrying approximately 17% of all seaborne crude, says Michelle Wiese Bockman, senior maritime intelligence analyst at Windward AI. The phenomenon that first emerged in the 2010s, as North Korea and Iran sought to evade international sanctions, has proliferated, leaving western governments scrambling to keep up. So what can those governments do when countries circumvent or flout the rules to export oil and use the profits to fuel engines of war or repression? Definitions vary - as do names: it's also been called the "dark" or "ghost" fleet - but shadow vessels generally exhibit some or all of a particular set of characteristics. They tend to be old, averaging an age of around 20 years, and are often poorly maintained. Details of ownership and management are deliberately opaque - names, identification numbers and flags are frequently changed. Insurance is below Western standards and sometimes fake. Vessels frequently switch off or manipulate their automatic identification system (AIS), making them harder to track. Seamen, recruited on contracts that typically last six to nine months, don't always know what they're getting into. "I didn't understand what shadow fleet vessels actually were," Russian engineer Denis told us, after serving aboard an EU- and UK-sanctioned tanker, Serena, for several months last year. Serena is currently flying under the flag of Cameroon. While Denis was aboard, it was flying a false Gambian flag. Denis says he realised the Serena was under sanctions only when he went aboard. But like many seamen, he says he needed the work. "Once they're at sea, they've got them prisoner on board," says Nathan Smith, an ITF inspector familiar with the Serena. Smith has heard numerous stories of abuses aboard shadow vessels. "It's a modern-day slavery," he says. Over the course of months spent sailing between Russia and China, the reality of life aboard a shadow vessel became increasingly apparent to Denis. "Things began to deteriorate very quickly because no spare parts were sent," he said. "The radar on the bridge hadn't been working for over a year, the life-saving equipment wasn't working and there were numerous faulty fire sensors." During a stop at the Russian port of Vladivostok, last October, the crew tried, without success, to repair a davit, a small specialised crane used to lower the tanker's life boats into the water. Denis says a port official nevertheless issued a certificate of successful inspection. The BBC has approached the Port of Vladivostok for comment. Denis says he never found out who owned the Serena or who crew members could contact to raise complaints. It's notoriously difficult to establish ownership of shadow fleet vessels. Ships have registered owners, which are often shell companies or entities set up to manage a single vessel. The names of real, or "beneficial" owners are frequently hidden. We have tried to make contact with the owners of the Gale and Serena, but without success. In the case of the Gale, it has proved impossible to establish the identity of the beneficial owner. Crews are poorly protected throughout the industry, with unpaid wages and abandonment by owners all-too frequent. But Denis says shadow vessels are the worst. "Now I'll be more careful," he says. "I've learned to identify dangerous vessels that I won't work on any more." Deep within the murky recesses of the shadow fleet also lurks a category experts have dubbed "zombie ships" - vessels which steal the identity of dead ships in order to hide their true identity. After being sanctioned, a zombie ship often disappears from tracking systems, later reappearing under a new name, using a stolen nine-digit International Maritime Organisation (IMO) number from a scrapped or decommissioned vessel. The ship's AIS tracking system, which uses transponders to continuously broadcast its location, is re-programmed to imitate the previous vessel. With the dead tanker's identity magically resurrected, the zombie ship continues to ply its trade, free from sanctions. According to the global trade intelligence company Kpler, the tanker, currently flying a false Gambian flag, has assumed multiple identities since being sanctioned by the US last year for its involvement in the export of sanctioned Iranian oil. After a period sailing under the false identity Sea Shell, using a different stolen IMO number, the Gale again changed identities, re-emerging as Beeta and loading a cargo of Iranian oil on 31 January. According to TankerTrackers.com, which uses satellite imagery, AIS data and shoreline photography to follow the movement of crude oil, the shipment was delivered by another US-sanctioned vessel via a ship-to-ship transfer, a procedure commonly used by shadow-fleet vessels involved in the shipment of sanctioned oil. The ship-to-ship transfer took place south of the Riau Archipelago, around 150 miles east of Singapore. Windward AI's Michelle Wiese Bockmann calls the area "an epicentre of maritime lawlessness", where dozens of tankers gather to store or transfer Iranian oil. Bockmann says China imported 1.8 million barrels per day of sanctioned Iranian crude per day in 2025. The BBC has contacted the Chinese embassy for a response. "None of it was traced," she says, "because tankers hide their loading and the oil has come on four or five tankers, deliberately to obscure the origin and destination of the cargo." The Gale's history and behaviour mark it out as a classic zombie ship. A computer screenshot taken on board by the crew member who contacted the ITF appears to give instructions on how to fake the ship's location, a process known as spoofing. Two other screenshots, taken on 26 January, show the spoofing at work. One displays the tanker's actual location, east of Singapore. The second, taken just five minutes later, shows a fake location, around 2,800 miles away, off the coast of the Indian state of Gujarat. "The confirmed linkage between Gale, Sea Shell, and Beeta, alongside fabricated AIS position history and prior impersonation, is consistent with deliberate identity manipulation," says Ana Subasic, an analyst at the global trade intelligence company Kpler. The BBC has no reason to believe the Serena is a zombie vessel, but the ship's former engineer says he saw equipment that would enable the Serena to fake its position. "I spoke with the bridge officers about turning off the AIS and other manipulation," Denis told us. "We had equipment on board to change the vessel's position. I think this equipment is only used for sanctioned cargo." Such practices, coupled with the knowledge that Russian and Iranian oil revenues continue to fuel conflict in Ukraine and the Middle East, are driving an urgent debate in western capitals about how to respond. Donald Trump's recent actions in Venezuela – seizing seven tankers since early December as part of a pressure campaign on the regime of then president Nicolás Maduro – has shown that one solution is the simple application of force. The operation to chase and capture one vessel, the Russian-flagged tanker Marinera, took the US military, including a coastguard vessel and special forces, on a two-week chase far out into the North Atlantic. The Marinera, previously known as the Guyanese-flagged Bella 1, was wanted by the US for transporting sanctioned oil from both Venezuela and Iran. The change of name and flag was designed to provide the tanker with a measure of international protection. Upping the ante further, Russia took the highly unusual step of requesting that the US call off its pursuit and said it had dispatched a submarine to escort the tanker, which was empty at the time. The Russian Foreign Ministry said there was not "any basis" to allege the tanker was sailing "without a flag" or "under a false flag". Undeterred by the possibility of an international incident or by the possible accusation of piracy on the high seas, the US intercepted the Marinera in international waters between Iceland and the UK in the early hours of 7 January. For the first time, the UK got involved, sending an RAF surveillance aircraft and a Royal Navy support ship to help the operation. Defence Secretary John Healey said the action was "in full compliance with international law" and said the UK was "stepping up activity against shadow vessels". Perhaps spurred on by Washington's assertive approach, there is some evidence that European partners are willing to take more robust action too. Two weeks after the Marinera episode, France launched an operation in the Mediterranean to seize the Grinch, another Russia-linked tanker suspected of violating international sanctions. Once again, the UK was involved. A Royal Navy patrol boat, HMS Dagger, shadowed the Grinch, as it passed through the Strait of Gibraltar. With at least one sanctioned vessel passing through the English Channel every day, according to experts, speculation is mounting that the UK might soon conduct its own interceptions. Healey recently told MPs that "further military options" were being explored. For some, it can't come soon enough. "There's obviously huge frustration in the policy-maker circles in Brussels and London that Russia is continuing to sell its oil," says Tom Keatinge, founding director of the Centre for Finance and Security at the Royal United Services Institute (Rusi) in London. Keatinge runs a maritime sanctions task force at Rusi, bringing together representatives from industry and government. Some participants, he sees, are keen to see more forthright action. "We have people… who like jumping out of helicopters on ropes," he says. "And that community has thus far been kept firmly in its box." He adds: "Put bluntly, no one's had the balls to look at what is often a 50-50 call and say 'We'll send the boys in'." The MoD said: "Deterring, disrupting and degrading the Russian shadow fleet is a priority for this government." But the constraints are considerable. "You've got a bunch of consequences that you need to be ready to deal with," Keatinge says. "The first is you've got an absolutely enormous vessel. What the hell do you do with that?" Once seized, tankers need to be maintained, with engines running and a skeleton crew on board. The appetite for holding such vessels, particularly older ones that might pose an environmental risk, is minimal. The Marinera remains moored in the Moray Firth, with other US-seized vessels being held off the coast of Texas and Puerto Rico. "If you look at the very high costs that the US is probably incurring at the moment to have two tankers off Houston, awaiting legal action, it's not something you take lightly," says Bockmann. Then there's the question of what to do with the oil itself. Again, Trump's approach is blunt: confiscate it. The president says 50 million barrels have been taken so far, as the US assumes control of Venezuela's oil industry. "Venezuela is going to get some and we're going to get some," he said in a recent interview. The president's European allies are unlikely to follow suit. "That would probably be a step too far for the Foreign Office," says Keatinge. So would Ukraine's increasingly direct approach. In recent months, Kyiv has targeted at least seven Russian shadow fleet tankers, using a variety of drones and mines. Most of Ukraine's attacks have been in the Black Sea, but one tanker, the Qendil, was hit and critically damaged while passing through the Mediterranean in December. Another tanker, the Mersin, was attacked and immobilised off the coast of Senegal in late November. Kyiv has not commented on reports that it carried out the attack. Most of the international effort so far has been more bureaucratic than kinetic: sanctioning hundreds of vessels, persuading countries such as The Gambia, Sierra Leone and Comoros, among others, to tighten their regulations, and addressing the issue of insurance. The number of falsely flagged ships globally more than doubled last year to over 450, according to the IMO, the BBC reported in November. Last year, the European Commission introduced new rules requiring all vessels entering EU waters to provide proof of insurance. The UK has a similar, voluntary reporting scheme, but shadow fleet vessels often ignore it or alter course when challenged. Ultimately, the sheer number of shadow vessels poses a simple problem of resources. But with Russian ships sometimes suspected of involvement in the monitoring or sabotage of undersea cables, there's an added national security dimension. In late January, the UK and thirteen other countries with Baltic and North Sea coastlines issued a coordinated warning that AIS manipulation, along with interference with Global Navigation Satellite Systems represented a growing threat to maritime safety and security. Vessels sailing under flags of convenience, the statement said, "may be treated as a ship without nationality", under the terms of the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, a reminder to anyone paying attention that existing laws already provide for the detention and seizure of ships. Windward AI's Bockmann says the Trump administration's actions over Venezuela have shown European leaders what can be done. "There's definitely a low threshold [for intervention] building for the darkest of the dark fleet," she says. The net is gradually closing on Russian oil. Last October, the Trump administration imposed sanctions on the country's two largest oil companies, Lukoil and Rosneft. The EU's next sanctions package against Russia may include a full ban on maritime services, making it impossible for European tankers to transport Russian oil under the legal price cap currently in place. Around 30% of Russia's maritime oil exports are currently carried on EU-owned vessels. But for Russia and Iran, war and sanctions are the mothers of invention. As the net tightens, you can be sure that the world's burgeoning fleet of shadow vessels will continue to operate in the dark. BBC InDepth is the home on the website and app for the best analysis, with fresh perspectives that challenge assumptions and deep reporting on the biggest issues of the day. Emma Barnett and John Simpson bring their pick of the most thought-provoking deep reads and analysis, every Saturday. Sign up for the newsletter here The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The US military boarded an oil tanker after tracking it for thousands of miles from the Caribbean to the Indian Ocean, the Department of Defense said. US officials said the ship - named Aquila II - was operating in defiance of a US "quarantine of sanctioned vessels in the Caribbean". "It ran, and we followed", the department said on social media, adding that "by land, air, or sea, our Armed Forces will find you and deliver justice". Forces boarded and inspected the ship, officials said. At least seven oil tankers have been seized by the US since last year, as the Trump administration moves to control the supply of Venezuelan oil, the country's main economic resource. The US military seized Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro from his home in Caracas during a raid in January and implemented a blockade of oil shipments. "When the (defence department) says quarantine, we mean it," the department wrote on X. Nothing will stop the US military from enforcement, "even in oceans halfway around the world". A video that accompanied the social media post showed US servicemembers in military fatigue uniforms boarding the ship from a helicopter that hovered above. The defence department said it "tracked and hunted" the Aquila II from the Caribbean to the Indian Ocean, thousands of miles away. The US blockade has sharply curtailed Venezuelan oil exports, with only ships associated with Chevron and bound for the US operating as usual. Loadings fell roughly in half in January to about 400,000 barrels per day, Matt Smith, head of US analysis at Kpler, told the BBC last month. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Anglers have called on the Environment Agency (EA) to "come up with a proper plan" to contain an oil spill that they believe is flowing into a river. The spill, beside the A14, north of Woodford, Northamptonshire, was reported on 28 December and is thought to have been dumped by fly-tippers. Locals said that heavy rain over the weekend meant containment booms had failed to stop the spill seeping into a tributary of the nearby River Nene. However, the EA said the booms were working, adding that it had taken dozens of tonnes of polluted water away from the site. Connor Bryan from Nene Anglers fishing club said the spill risked becoming a "major pollution event". He said: "Oil is a poison, especially when mixed with water. Birds, fish, people, pets and livestock are all at risk. "The situation has been mismanaged. There's been no containment [of the spill] whatsoever." Nick Urquhart, who runs a local litter-picking group and is also a member of Nene Anglers, said the situation was becoming critical. "It's a disaster not only for anglers, but for all the people who use and enjoy the Nene Valley," he said. Last week the EA said the spill was equivalent to "1,000 bathtubs" and work to clear it would resume on Monday. In a statement, the EA, which initially attended the scene on 1 February – more than a month after the spill was first reported – said: "Excess water has been pumped from the tributary to make sure the oil that was dumped is well contained within the booms that our team have deployed. "Our contractors have been operating a cleanup operation this week and will be onsite again on Monday to continue with the process. "We encourage anyone who has any information about this incident or wishes to report an environmental incident to call our 247 hotline on 0800 807060." Richard Johnstone, the owner of the land where the oil was dumped, said it was clear that heavy rain had hampered the clean-up operation but shared frustration that the EA had not acted sooner. "The authorities can't be everywhere at once [but] if things had been acted on sooner, we wouldn't have gotten to where we are now. "We need to get the countryside back to the way it was and all of the wildlife back secure in their habitats." Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Contractors have removed contaminated water equivalent to "1,000 bathtubs" during a clean-up operation at an oil spill beside the A14. The spill was discovered north of Woodford in Northamptonshire and was reported on 28 December 2025. On Thursday, the Environment Agency (EA) said 80 tonnes of polluted water had already been taken away from the site. Ben Thornely, the EA incident manager, added: "[The water removed] is the equivalent of 1,000 bathtubs. We're trying to stop the pollution moving downstream... to try and minimise the impact on wildlife and the environment." The EA initially visited the site on Sunday and installed absorbent material to stop the oil from spreading. The agency expects most of the work to be completed by Friday, but staff will continue daily monitoring visits to assess any lasting environmental impact. Phil Chilvers, who reported the spillage, said: "It's been down to the community to get things going, which is a shame as when it was reported [in December] it should have been done. But it's great [the clean-up] is happening now." Lee Barron, the Labour MP for Corby and East Northamptonshire, said he would visit the site on Friday. "We're liaising with local residents, the local angling club, and the parish council... to make sure we can support the residents and then make sure we have something in place to ensure that this never happens again," Barron added. Thornely said the agency receives thousands of pollution reports each year, but described this one as "a very significant incident". Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An "absolutely horrendous level of oil and litter" has been dumped at a layby, cascaded into woodland and is threatening to pollute a river. Richard Johnstone said tyres and oil have been discarded on the A14 next to his land, north of Woodford in Northamptonshire. "It's just mindless. They don't see the consequences of what goes on afterwards – all the clear up and the possibility of loss of life to any animals," he said. The Environment Agency (EA) visited the site on Sunday and said it had installed absorbent material "to prevent the oil from spreading". "We believe oil has been tipped down a highways drain on the A14, and we have alerted Highways England," an EA spokesperson said. "We take our responsibility to protect the environment very seriously and will be back on site tomorrow [Monday]." Nick Urquhart, who runs a local litter-picking group and is a member of the Nene Anglers, has also visited the site. "It looks like a war zone," he said. "There's an absolutely horrendous level of oil - we are probably talking hundreds of gallons. "There's extensive oil in the ditch and this water course runs into a tributary of the Nene. "It's a major environmental incident". Urquhart said the oil appeared to be sump oil from a garage "that has done lots of oil changes". "It's like a waterfall of oil running down the hillside," he added. He believed whoever was responsible had been coming regularly for the past few weeks, with the latest waste dumped on Thursday evening. Johnstone told the BBC the oil was now only about one or two feet deep because it had already soaked away. "It's gone straight down the end of the culvert into the ditch line... flowing into the main stream," he said. "It's not just the life in the water - I'm worried about the land animals that drink the water as well. "And God forbid any pets that get ill because they've been near the contaminated oil." Johnstone posted about the incident in a local community Facebook group on Saturday. He urged people to report this to the authorities, and said he had already notified the police, council and Environment Agency. "I am doing everything I can to get this cleared up so we can have the countryside back to how it should be," he said. Follow Northamptonshire news on BBC Sounds, Facebook, Instagram and X. The district council says the car was seized after environment officers reviewed CCTV footage. Earlier this week mattresses and bin bags were tipped next to the entrance of Bolling Hall Museum. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Confiscation orders totalling nearly £70,000 are issued in relation to the dump near Grantham. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has threatened to impose 50% tariffs on Canadian planes in retaliation for Canada "wrongfully, illegally, and steadfastly" refusing to certify a number of planes made by US firm Gulfstream. In a social media post, Trump also said he was "decertifying... all Aircraft made in Canada", although the White House later reportedly walked back that claim. Also on Thursday, the president pledged new tariffs on countries that sell oil to Cuba, as the US steps up its pressure on the Caribbean nation's communist leadership. The proposed new levies were outlined in an executive order, although no details were given about specific tariff rates or which countries could be targeted. Trump said the US would decertify all Canadian aircraft, including planes from its largest aircraft maker, Bombardier. "We have taken note of the post from the President of the United States to social media and are in contact with the Canadian government," Bombardier said in a statement. But a White House official later told the Reuters news agency that Trump was not suggesting decertifying Canadian-built planes currently in operation. The BBC has contacted the White House, the US Federal Aviation Authority and the  Canadian government for comment. Trump's latest threats against Canada come at a time of heightened tensions between the neighbouring countries. Earlier in January, Canadian Prime Minister Mark Carney made global headlines for his speech at a World Economic Forum event in Davos in which he indirectly called out Trump for a "rupture" in the postwar world order. Later in the month, Carney visited China where he announced a "strategic partnership" with Bejing, and agreed to reduce some tariffs. This prompted Trump to threaten a 100% tariff on Canadian goods if the country struck a trade deal with China. Trump has also continued his campaign against Cuba, threatening tariffs on countries that supply oil to the Caribbean island nation. On Tuesday, Trump said Cuba "will be falling pretty soon", as long-time ally Venezuela no longer sends oil or money to the country after President Nicolás Maduro was seized by US forces on 3 January. Previously, the South American nation was believed to be sending about 35,000 barrels of oil a day to Cuba. In an executive order on Thursday, Trump said "the policies, practices, and actions of the Government of Cuba constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat". He also accused Havana of hosting "dangerous adversaries of the United States". The tariffs may target countries "that directly or indirectly sells or otherwise provides any oil to Cuba". Trump has previously ordered Cuba to "make a deal, before it is too late", although he has not specified the terms of a deal or the consequences that the island nation could face. At the time, Cuba's President Miguel Díaz-Canel said Washington had no moral authority to force a deal on his country. The Trump administration's tactic of confiscating sanctioned Venezuelan oil tankers has already begun to worsen a fuel and electricity crisis in Cuba. The country has faced rolling blackouts, with Cubans struggling to cope without reliable electricity supplies. Cuban foreign minister Bruno Rodriguez recently said that the Caribbean island nation had "the absolute right to import fuel" from any willing exporter "without interference or subordination to the unilateral coercive measures of the United States". The BBC has contacted the Cuban Foreign Ministry for comment. Cornwall's Chamber of Commerce president says the route generated most of the airport's revenue. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Airport bosses want to encourage greener travel, but some taxi drivers are accusing them of greed. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
With its neat rows of detached family homes, complete with grass lawns and porches, Miraflores could be mistaken for a typical American suburb. Located in the heartland of Venezuela's oil industry, on the Costa Oriental (Eastern Coast) of Venezuela's Lake Maracaibo, this quiet neighbourhood once helped to make the country one of the wealthiest in Latin America. It was a symbol of national prosperity. This used to be one of the world's most productive oil basins, and along with the city of Maracaibo, across the lake, is seen as key to President Donald Trump's plan to get US firms to invest $100bn (£75bn) to rebuild Venezuela's energy industry. The country has the world's largest proven oil reserves, estimated at about 303 billion barrels. But for now, the area around Lake Maracaibo stands as a stark reminder of how much the country's fortunes have declined over the decades. The BBC World Service is the first international broadcaster to visit the region since the US military seized Nicolás Maduro from his presidential compound in Caracas in early January, and took him to New York to face narco-terrorism charges - accusations he denies. There are oil pumps and rigs dotted everywhere - on street corners, in surrounding fields and rising out of the lake. While a handful have been freshly painted in the yellow, blue and red of the national flag and remain operational, many others have not moved in years and are rusting and falling apart. The decay is striking in the 20 or so American-style "oil camps" on the fringes of the lake - these were originally built by international companies to house their workforce, after the commercial exploitation of Venezuela's oil reserves took off in the 1920s. Oil giants such as Standard Oil of New Jersey (which later became Exxon), Chevron and Shell invested heavily in Maracaibo, Venezuela's second-largest city. Oil money turned former fishing villages into affluent communities with hospitals, schools, and social clubs. In Miraflores, which housed the industry's top executives, many homes now sit abandoned and looted, their windows smashed and wiring stripped bare. Gladysmila Gil moved to a more modest neighbourhood nearby in 1968 with her late husband, who worked in the oil industry and had the home given to him. "When we moved into this house, it was in good condition," she recalls, sitting on a frayed  chair and looking at the pink paint peeling off the walls. "If we were sick, we went to the hospital and they treated us. The rubbish was collected every other day, and we didn't have these power outages," she adds of the economic decline Venezuela has experienced over the past 13 years. Now rubbish is only collected sporadically and despite the oil reserves, the region has been hit by a severe energy crisis over the past decade with blackouts reported almost daily. An unfinished light rail system mired in corruption allegations, a run-down central hospital which patients have described as "hell" and deepening inequality make it feel like a microcosm of the country. Venezuela's gross domestic product (GDP) has declined by more than 70% since Nicolás Maduro became president in 2013. "You don't see kids in these streets, there is no youth. I used to live here with nine relatives, and they all left," says 64-year-old José Gregorio Martínez, the son of a former oil worker, sitting on his front porch. Fighting back tears, the retired teacher explains that he only survives thanks to the money his relatives send from abroad. His monthly state pension of $2.80 (£2) does not even cover his most basic needs. Gil and Martínez recall what they see as the golden days, and are not alone in hoping that new investment from US companies will transform their lives. In the 1970s, Venezuela pumped as much as 3.5 million barrels of oil per day - accounting for more than 7% of total global output. Then, production was managed by a network of foreign firms, many from the US, operating under government concessions, until the industry was nationalised in 1976 and taken over by the state-owned giant, PDVSA. The industry continued to form the backbone of the country's economy, benefiting from the high oil prices of the 1970s. When oil prices fell in the 1980s and Venezuela ran into an economic crisis, reality hit. There were protests as the government introduced austerity measures to try to balance the books. In the 1990s, reforms were introduced to open doors to foreign investment and in 1999 the country still produced about 3.2 million barrels of oil per day, with approximately half of that output coming from Zulia state, the region around Lake Maracaibo. Then came the rise of Chavismo - an anti-American, nationalist ideology created by Maduro's predecessor Hugo Chávez. He became president in 1999 as oil prices were on the rise again, enabling his government to fund huge social programmes designed to lift millions out of poverty. But by the end of 2025, oil output had fallen to about 860,000 barrels per day, less than 1% of global crude production. Many cite 2002 as a turning point for the industry, when a strike by oil workers against Chávez's government was followed by a sweeping overhaul of PDVSA. It is widely reported that up to 22,000 people were fired. "You can't lose 22,000 technical people in a company and expect that nothing happens," says Jorge, not his real name, who was dismissed at the time. He says the shake-up aimed to align the company with political priorities and that much of the experienced management resisted, ultimately losing their jobs. In 2007, the oil sector was transformed again when President Chávez's government seized control of the industry. Some foreign firms remained under new state-led partnerships, while others - most notably ExxonMobil - left the country, and the industry's decline accelerated. Mismanagement and corruption have been a problem for the sector, but the government has pointed the finger firmly at US sanctions as a major cause of the decline. Broad economic sanctions were put in place in 2017 during Trump's first term, in response to what it called "serious abuses of human rights… establishment of an illegitimate Constituent Assembly, which has usurped the power of the democratically elected National Assembly… rampant public corruption" and "persecution of, and violence toward, the political opposition". The turning point for the US came with the seizure of Nicolás Maduro. President Donald Trump said the US would "run" Venezuela and control the sale of its sanctioned oil "indefinitely", but a Maduro loyalist - Delcy Rodríguez - has since taken control of Venezuela's armed forces and the country's institutions. While defiantly demanding the release of Maduro, who she says has been "kidnapped", Rodríguez has co-operated with the Trump administration to reform the law to allow foreign and local oil companies to operate oilfields again, through a new contract model. The Venezuelan parliament - dominated by Maduro loyalists - approved this major shift on Thursday. Many in Maracaibo are optimistic about potential US investment. "It would be better because then there would be work, and our children wouldn't have to resort to fishing. They could have a future instead," says Carlos Rodríguez. Now in his late 20s, he has worked these waters since he was a teenager. As he pulls his oil-stained boat out on to the lake, the view is striking. The beauty of the sky contrasts sharply with the water, sometimes blue, but often a murky green from cyanobacteria or stained black. It's easy to see the oil slicking the surface and when I dip my hand in, it comes out streaked with oil. "It's getting worse every day. Green, black, oily," Rodríguez complains. "And there are fewer fish." That morning, he didn't catch a single one. He hopes that if international oil companies return, they will help clean the lake. Others are wary. "We have no problem with [foreign companies] coming to exploit our resources, to drill wells and to create jobs," says another fisherman, José Luzardo. "But we don't want to be anyone's colony." He is a staunch Maduro loyalist, but admits that both his family and colleagues are struggling. Trump "can come, but he has to pay us for the oil…  the oil belongs to Venezuela, it belongs to all Venezuelans", he says as he prepares to set sail. Many others - in particular people who oppose the government - avoid speaking about politics for fear of repercussions. Later, the sound of the lake's waves lapping against the side of Luzardo's house competes with the sizzle of hot oil. In a kitchen with bare, unplastered walls, a group of women fry the few fish caught that morning. Luzardo says they were lucky. Sometimes they come back home with nothing at all. On those days, they go to bed hungry. Both the government and the opposition agree on the need for investment. Juan Romero, a member of parliament representing Zulia and a local leader of the ruling PSUV party, says it is the key to the industry's revival. "In Lake Maracaibo, there are approximately 13,000 wells that could be recovered, and there are reserves of 26 billion barrels of oil," he says. With US sanctions removed, he believes the "economic strangulation" of the sector will end and that Venezuela will be able to attract foreign money. But analysts warn it could take a decade and hundreds of billions of dollars to restore the nation's former output, and industry giants remain cautious. ExxonMobil's chief executive, Darren Woods, labelled the nation "uninvestable" in its current state. Speaking at a White House summit following the removal of Maduro, he pointed out that the company had had its assets seized there twice "so you can imagine to re-enter a third time would require some pretty significant changes". Without a new legal framework and stronger protections for investors, he warned that the billions of dollars required for redevelopment would not materialise. Yet for many in Maracaibo, hope remains that investment and prosperity will return. Among them is 93-year-old José Rodas, a retired oil worker who still owns a special-edition Dodge Dart, a classic American muscle car that he bought during the 1970s oil boom. "Things have become more difficult," he says. "In the past, life was easier. We had comforts then." He points to the "commissariat", a central department within the oil camps that not only provided subsidised food but also maintained the workers' homes, with fresh coats of paint and new light bulbs. Today, the car sitting on his neglected porch feels like a faded relic of that former life. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Shares in US energy companies have jumped as investors bet that the US seizure of Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro will open opportunities to tap the country's oil reserves. Shares in Chevron opened more than 4% higher, after surging more than 7% in pre-market trading, while other firms, including ConocoPhillips and Exxon also gained. Precious metal prices and shares in defence stocks also rose as the intervention increased investors' concerns about geopolitical risks. Gold was about 1.9% higher at $4,412 (£3,275) an ounce, while the price of silver was up by 3.6%, as money was moved into so-called "safe-haven" assets. Prices of precious metals such as gold and silver often rise in times of uncertainty as they are seen as safer assets to hold. The gold price saw its best annual performance last year since 1979 after rising by more than 60%, reaching an all-time high of $4,549.71 on 26 December. Those gains were driven by several factors including expectations of more interest rate cuts, major purchases of bullion by central banks and investor concerns about global tensions and economic uncertainty. Oil prices fluctuated on Monday as investors weighed whether Washington's intervention in Venezuela would affect crude supplies. Brent crude rose more than 1% to nearly $61.50 a barrel, still below highs seen in recent years, as analysts said ample global supplies would offset any disruption. Shares in Chevron, the only US company currently operating in Venezuela, rose 4%, while Spanish energy firm Repsol, among the other few Western energy firms with a presence in the country, gained 2%. Oil services firms also climbed, with Haliburton up more than 7%. US President Donald Trump has vowed to tap into Venezuela's vast oil reserves after seizing Maduro and said that the US will "run the country until such time as we can do a safe, proper and judicious transition". But industry analysts have said the move is unlikely to have an immediate impact on how much people and businesses pay for energy. Experts have also said it would cost billions of dollars to fix Venezuela's oil infrastructure, which has been in sharp decline since the early 2000s. Venezuela's crude production has been "lacklustre" for years and now only accounts for around 1% of global oil output, said investment strategist Vasu Menon from OCBC bank. The former chief executive of BP, Lord Browne, told the BBC's Today programme that for Venezuela to revive its oil production would take "a tremendous amount of skill investment and time". While there might be a "quick pick up" of some production, he added, output might actually fall while the industry is reorganising. Shares in defence stocks across Europe rose sharply as investors reacted to the US actions in Venezuela. In the UK, shares in BAE Systems rose 5% while Germany's Rheinmetall jumped more than 8%. "Heightened geopolitical tensions like the ones we've seen over the weekend would normally spook investors, but global markets have avoided a sell-off," said Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell. "Defence stocks often move higher when there are heightened tensions between two countries as investors believe events could spur governments to spend more on military protection. "It was only natural to see the sector in demand after Venezuela's leader was captured," he added. Mining firms also rose following the gain in precious metals prices, with Endeavour Mining and Fresnillo both up more than 4%. Share markets in Asia made gains as investors focused on news unrelated to developments in Venezuela. Japan's Nikkei 225 was up 3% on the first day of trading of the year and new data showed that manufacturing activity stabilised in December. Major indexes in South Korea and China were also higher. The jumps reflect confidence that the fallout from events in Venezuela will remain distant, said Zavier Wong from investment firm eToro. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. It is the latest sign of warming relations between the US and Venezuela after Nicolás Maduro was seized in a commando raid. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump has vowed to tap into Venezuela's oil reserves after seizing President Nicolás Maduro and saying the US will "run" the country until a "safe" transition. The US president wants American oil firms to pile billions of dollars into the South American country, which has the largest crude oil reserves on the planet, to mobilise the largely untapped resource. He said US companies will fix Venezuela's "badly broken" oil infrastructure and "start making money for the country". But experts warned of huge challenges with Trump's plan, saying it would cost billions and take up to a decade to produce a meaningful uplift in oil output. So can the US really take control of Venezuela's oil reserves? And will Trump's plan work? With an estimated 303 billion barrels, Venezuela is home to the world's largest proven oil reserves. But the amount of oil the country actually produces today is tiny by comparison. Output has dropped off sharply since the early 2000s, as former President Hugo Chavez and then the Maduro administration tightened control over the state-run oil company, PDVSA, leading to an exodus of more experienced staff. Though some Western oil firms, including the US company Chevron, are still active in the country, their operations have shrunk significantly as the US has widened sanctions and targeted oil exports, aiming to curb Maduro's access to a key economic lifeline. Sanctions - which the US first put in place in 2015 during President Barack Obama's administration over alleged human rights violations - have also left the country largely cut off from the investment and the parts it needs. "The real challenge they've got is their infrastructure," said Callum Macpherson, head of commodities at Investec. Bill Farren Price, senior research fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, told the BBC that Venezuela's oil industry "had its heyday decades ago" and has been in sharp decline over the past 20 years. "A lot of the complex supply chain and infrastructure's been looted and taken apart and sold," he added. In November, Venezuela produced an estimated 860,000 barrels per day, according to the latest oil market report from the International Energy Agency. That is barely a third of what it was 10 years ago and accounts for less than 1% of world oil consumption. The country's oil reserves are made up of so-called "heavy, sour" oil. It is harder to refine, but useful for making diesel and asphalt. The US typically produces "light, sweet" oil used to make petrol. In the run-up to the strikes and capture of Maduro, the US also seized two oil tankers off the coast of Venezuela, as well as ordering a blockade of sanctioned tankers entering and leaving the country. Homayoun Falakshahi, senior commodity analyst at data platform Kpler, says the key hurdles for oil firms hoping to exploit Venezuelan reserves are legal and political. Speaking to the BBC, he said those hoping to drill in Venezuela would need an agreement with the government, which will not be possible until Maduro's successor is in place. Companies would then be left gambling billions of investment on the stability of a future Venezuelan government, Mr Falakshahi added. "Even if the political situation is stable, it's a process that takes months," he said. Companies hoping to take advantage of Trump's plan would need to sign contracts with the new government when it is in place, before beginning the process of ramping up investment in infrastructure in Venezuela. Analysts have also warned it would take tens of billions of dollars - and potentially a decade - to restore Venezuela's former output. Neil Shearing, group chief economist at Capital Economics, said Trump's plans would have a limited impact on the global supply, and therefore price, of oil. He said there are "an enormous number of hurdles to overcome and the timeframe of what is going to happen is so long" that oil prices in 2026 would likely see little change. Mr Shearing said firms would not invest until a stable government is in place in Venezuela, and the projects would not deliver for "many, many years". "The issue has always been decades of underinvestment, mismanagement and it is really expensive to extract," he said. He added that even if the country could return to previous production levels of around three million barrels per day, it would still be outside the world's top 10 producers. And Mr Shearing pointed to high production among Opec+ countries, saying the world is currently "not suffering from a shortage of oil". The former chief executive of BP, Lord Browne, told the BBC that reviving Venezuela's oil industry was a "very long term project". "People underestimate the time it takes to do things. Marshalling all the resources, the material and people in particular, takes a very long time." While there might be a "quick pick up" of some production, he added, output might actually fall while the industry is reorganising. Chevron is the only American oil producer still active in Venezuela, after receiving a licence under former President Joe Biden in 2022 to operate, despite US sanctions. The company, currently responsible for around a fifth of Venezuelan oil extraction, said it is focused on the safety of its employees and is complying "with all relevant laws and regulations". Other major oil firms have been publicly silent on the plans so far, with only Chevron addressing the situation. But Mr Falakshahi said oil bosses will be in talks internally about whether to take advantage of the opportunity. He added: "The appetite to go somewhere is linked to two main factors, the political situation and the resources on the ground." Oil firms may be reluctant to return to Venezuela given their previous experiences. ExxonMobil and ConocoPhilips are still seeking billions in compensation from Venezuela after their assets were expropriated in the 2000s. However, despite the hugely uncertain political situation, Mr Falakshahi said "the potential prize may be deemed too big to avoid". Lord Browne said companies would want to get involved because "having options for business in different parts of the world is a good thing to have". "As a piece of business, if you were running a company... you want to get involved very quickly". Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
BP has appointed a new chief executive, making Meg O'Neill the first woman to run a major global oil firm. The London-based energy giant said its current boss Murray Auchincloss would step down less than two years after he replaced Bernard Looney, who was found to have committed "serious misconduct" in failing to disclose relationships with colleagues. Under Ms O'Neill, who currently runs Australian oil and gas firm Woodside Energy, BP is expected to continue its recent strategy of moving away from renewables to refocus on its core oil and gas business. Ms O'Neill said she looks forward to helping BP "do our part to meet the world's energy needs". Ms O'Neill's surprise appointment comes only three months after BP appointed a new chairman, Albert Manifold. In February, the energy giant said it would shift its strategy following pressure from some investors who were frustrated that its profits and share price had lagged behind rivals. Rivals Shell and Norwegian company Equinor have also scaled back plans to invest in green energy and US President Donald Trump's call to "drill baby drill" has encouraged firms to invest in fossil fuels. Energy consultant and former Shell executive Robin Mills told the BBC's Today programme that the "surprise" appointment of Ms O'Neill was about refocusing on its core oil and gas businesses. "The new chairman... has really decided to put his stamp on things," he said. "I think the announcement that's been put here made it very clear that he felt Murray [Auchincloss] had done a decent job, but not  enough and more was needed and some new leadership, some new blood." Although Mr Auchincloss he tried to distance himself from his predecessor's plans to cut oil and gas production, some shareholders had been impatient at the pace of change and were pushing for changes at the top. Derren Nathan, head of equity research at Hargreaves Lansdown, said a new chairman and chief executive within months of each other shows the "legacy clear-out is now complete". However, Mr Nathan said the focus for the incoming BP boss would be to boost its profitability and share price so that it was not subject to a takeover as oil and gas majors merge. "Consolidation is the talk of the town, but BP is most frequently seen as prey rather than the hunter. Rival Shell has distanced itself from takeover speculation, but there are other potential suitors. "[Ms] O'Neill may have a fight on her hands to ensure BP's not sold for a song, and to keep a seat at the table if it were to join forces with a competitor. Meg O'Neill will be the first woman to lead BP and the first chief executive to be appointed from outside the company. From April 2026, she will swap the sunny beach suburbs of Perth, Australia, where she currently lives with her wife and teenage daughter, for London, where BP is headquartered. Ms O'Neill has previously discussed the difficulty in coming out in a male-dominated industry, but said that visibility was important. "I think it is important for me as a senior gay woman in the industry to be visible so young, queer people can look up and say, 'Look, there's somebody like me. I should be comfortable bringing myself to work,'" she told the West Australian in 2022. The appointment at the top of BP is the culmination of Ms O'Neill's career climbing the corporate ladder. She spent 23 years in technical, operational and leadership positions at Texas-based energy firm ExxonMobil, where she zig-zagged the globe with roles in the Nordics, Southeast Asia, the US and Africa, before joining Woodside Energy. While leading the Australian firm, Ms O'Neill reportedly refused to commit to binding net zero commitments, lobbied against regulations and cancelled renewable energy projects, despite shareholders voting that Woodside be more active in the energy transition. This put Ms O'Neill in the sights of climate change activists who in 2023 attempted to vandalise her ocean-front home and steal her luxury vehicles in protest. Reaction from investors to her appointment was fairly muted. BP shares initially opened higher in London on Thursday morning before paring gains. Ms O'Neill said she would prioritise re-establishing the oil giant's market leadership, as well as advancing safety and driving innovation and sustainability. BP praised Ms O'Neill's time as chief executive of Woodside Energy, pointing to the firm's takeover of BHP Petroleum International in 2022. It said she had grown the business into the largest energy company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. BP executive vice president Carol Howle will serve as interim chief executive until Ms O'Neill, who has led Woodside Energy since 2021, takes up her new role on 1 April. Mr Auchincloss, who took over from Mr Looney in September 2024, said he had told BP's chairman in September that he was open to stepping down "were an appropriate leader identified". "I am confident that BP is now well positioned for significant growth and I look forward to watching the company's future progress," he said after Ms O'Neill's appointment was announced. He will serve in an advisory role until December 2026. Mr Looney was dismissed without notice in 2023, and forfeited up to £32.4m ($43.3m) in salary and benefits, after admitting that he was not "fully transparent" about his past personal relationships. BP's board said they had been "knowingly misled" by Mr Looney. At the time, Mr Looney said in a statement that he was "disappointed with the way this situation has been handled". Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. The average price at the pump has topped $4 in the US for the first time since 2022 as the Iran war continues to push up fuel prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Donald Trump has ordered "a total and complete" blockade of all sanctioned oil tankers entering and leaving Venezuela, a move denounced by Caracas as "warmongering threats". Trump wrote that Venezuelan President Nicolás Maduro's government had been designated a foreign terrorist organisation (FTO), which had also engaged in "Drug Smuggling, and Human Trafficking". His remarks come after the US seized an oil tanker off the coast of Venezuela last week, a significant action in light of the South American nation's reliance on oil. The US has also recently conducted deadly strikes on alleged Venezuelan drug-smuggling boats, and has significantly built up its naval presence nearby. Trump's post did not give further detail of how the wide-ranging blockade on sanctioned oil tankers would be enforced. As of last week, more than 30 of the 80 ships in Venezuelan waters or approaching the country were under US sanctions, according to data compiled by TankerTrackers.com. Multiple new US sanctions on ships said to be carrying Venezuelan oil were issued after the tanker was seized. Sanctions were also placed on some of President Maduro's relatives and on businesses associated with what the US called his illegitimate regime. In his Truth Social post on Tuesday, Trump wrote that Venezuela was "completely surrounded by the largest Armada ever assembled in the History of South America". He added that it would "only get bigger" and "be like nothing they have ever seen before". Trump also accused Maduro's government of using "stolen" oil to "finance themselves, Drug Terrorism, Human Trafficking, Murder, and Kidnapping". Tuesday's post from Trump suggested that a label the US had previously applied only to Maduro was now being widened to his whole government. Last month, the US formally alleged that the Venezuelan Cartel de los Soles group was an FTO. The designation meant that Maduro was effectively designated as terrorist as well, because he was alleged to be group's leader - which he denies. In response to the recent US actions, Venezuela - home to the world's largest proven oil reserves - has accused Washington of seeking to steal its resources. Trump has repeatedly accused Venezuela of drug smuggling, and since September the US military has killed about 100 people with its strikes on boats that were allegedly carrying fentanyl and other illegal drugs to the US. However, it has provided no public evidence that these vessels were carrying drugs, be it fentanyl - which is mainly produced in Mexico - or cocaine. Another ship accused of drug trafficking was destroyed by the US military on Wednesday. US officials say four men were killed in the strike, which took place in the eastern Pacific Ocean. Venezuela's economy is heavily dependent on oil exports, even though the amount of oil it actually produces is relatively small given that the country is home to the world's largest proven reserves. When announcing the tanker seizure off Venezuela's coast last week, the White House said the vessel in question, called the Skipper, had been involved in "illicit oil shipping" and would be taken to a US port. Venezuela's government decried the move, with Maduro saying the US "kidnapped the crew" and "stole" the ship. The US had been building up its military presence in the Caribbean Sea, which borders Venezuela to the north, in the weeks and months before the raid. The build-up has involved thousands of troops and the USS Gerald Ford – the world's largest aircraft carrier – being positioned within striking distance of Venezuela. Congressman Joaquin Castro, a Democrat representing Texas, said Trump's "naval blockade is unquestionably an act of war". He added that US lawmakers would on Thursday vote on a resolution "directing the president to end hostilities with Venezuela". The US, under both Trump and former President Joe Biden, has opposed the Maduro government for years and pressed for him to be removed by imposing stringent sanctions. Maduro's government has been accused of rights abuses by the wider international community for many years. Venezuela's opposition, as well as many nations including the US, denounced last year's election as rigged and say his rule is therefore illegitimate. On Tuesday, the UN human rights chief, Volker Türk, warned that the country's "crackdown on civic space has intensified, suffocating people's freedoms". The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Plans to drill for oil in the Lincolnshire Wolds have been abandoned. A public inquiry was expected to be held next year into the proposed site at Biscathorpe after a long running campaign against it by local protesters. Now the company behind the scheme, Union Jack Oil, said in a statement to the London Stock Exchange that it was withdrawing from the planning appeal as it "could no longer justify its continued investment". Amanda Suddaby, from campaign group SOS Biscathorpe, said they were "relieved and delighted". "It's a lovely early Christmas gift for everyone who has worked so hard for this outcome and we're immensely grateful to everyone who has contributed over the years," she added. The application for an oil well at Biscathorpe was initially refused by Lincolnshire County Council in 2021, but the developer successfully appealed against the decision at the High Court. In 2024, an objection by SOS Biscathorpe led to a Supreme Court judgement which quashed the approval to drill and triggered a planning appeal hearing, which was due to be heard in April. David Bramhill, executive chairman of Union Jack Oil, said after a review the firm had decided to relinquish its drilling licence for the site. "With a backdrop of a changing macro-economic environment, along with the continued regulatory uncertainty in relation to how downstream emissions will be considered, we have concluded that this is the correct decision for the company's wider objectives," he said. Listen to highlights from Lincolnshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Bottles and cans are exchanged for a printed ticket that can be swapped for rewards. Merthyr South Wales Ltd sparked anger after submitting a new - and cheaper - restoration plan. An island colony whose koalas are free of chlamydia could help save the wider population from the deadly disease. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Venezuelan leader Nicolás Maduro says escalating pressure from the US comes down to one thing: Washington wants to grab the South American nation's vast oil reserves. This week the American military seized an oil tanker, which was allegedly carrying Venezuelan oil being shipped in violation of US sanctions, and threatened action against other ships. The move followed a series of military strikes on Venezuelan boats, which the US alleges are drug-trafficking vessels. President Donald Trump has called on Maduro to leave office, accusing him of sending narcotics and murderers to the US. So is it Venezuela's oil that Trump really wants? And would it actually be worth it? It is true that with an estimated 303 billion barrels, Venezuela is home to the world's largest proven oil reserves. But the amount of oil the country actually produces today is tiny by comparison. Output has dropped off sharply since the early 2000s, as former President Hugo Chavez and then the Maduro administration tightened control over the state-run oil company, PDVSA, leading to an exodus of more experienced staff. Though some Western oil firms, including the US company Chevron, are still active in the country, their operations have shrunk significantly as the US has widened sanctions and targeted oil exports, aiming to curb Maduro's access to a key economic lifeline. Sanctions - which the US first put in place in 2015 during President Barack Obama's administration over alleged human rights violations - have also left the country largely cut off from the investment and the parts it needs. "The real challenge they've got is their infrastructure," says Callum Macpherson, head of commodities at Investec. In November, Venezuela produced an estimated 860,000 barrels per day, according to the latest oil market report from the International Energy Agency. That is barely a third of what it was 10 years ago and accounts for less than 1% of world oil consumption. Some in the US have made the case for intervention in Venezuela by pointing to the opportunities for American businesses to revive the oil industry. "Venezuela, for the American oil companies, will be a field day," Florida Republican congresswoman María Elvira Salazar said in a recent interview on Fox Business. "American companies can go in and fix all the oil pipes, the whole oil rigs and everything that has to do with... oil and the derivatives." Trump might seem open to such arguments. He campaigned on the slogan "drill, baby, drill" and has generally called for expanding oil production, which he has tied to lower prices for Americans. But when it comes to Venezuela, the White House has said it is concerned about drug trafficking and what it sees as Maduro's illegitimacy. Asked on Thursday whether the US campaign in the region was about drugs or oil, White House press secretary Karoline Leavitt said the administration was focused on "many things". She called stopping the flow of illegal drugs to the US its "number one" priority. Clayton Seigle, a senior fellow for energy security at the think tank the Center for Strategic and International Studies, says he takes such pronouncements "largely at face value". He pointed to the longstanding interest in the region of key players like Secretary of State Marco Rubio. "I just have not seen the supporting evidence that oil is at the centre of its ambitions," he says. That's not to say that US companies would not be interested. At the moment, Chevron is the only American oil producer still active in Venezuela, after receiving a licence under former President Joe Biden in 2022 to operate, despite US sanctions. The Trump administration extended the firm another waiver this year, though it has revoked exemptions for other firms, such as Spain's Repsol, in a bid to curb the flow of funds to the Maduro regime. Today, Chevron accounts for about a fifth of Venezuela's oil production. Analysts say Chevron would be among those best-placed to benefit, should the US start to lift its barriers against dealing with Venezuela. Refiners in the US, particularly those around the Gulf Coast, are also hungry for the "heavier" type of crude that Venezuela produces, which tends to be less expensive and therefore more profitable to process. "It has been problematic for US Gulf Coast refiners in recent years that Venezuela has been under sanctions and been reducing production, because it means there's less of that heavy crude available," says Matt Smith, oil analyst at Kpler. "Even if they weren't getting involved in the production side of things, they would be a keen buyer of it." While any expansion of oil exports from Venezuela could help bring down prices in the US, analysts say that would take time, with its current output too limited to make a significant impact. And restoring Venezuela's oil industry to its former glory would be a heavy lift. According to a recent Wood Mackenzie report, improved management and some modest investments could help boost oil production in Venezuela to about two million barrels per day over the next two years. But analysts warned it would take tens of billions of dollars - and potentially a decade - to raise output more significantly. They also said companies could be put off by potential complications like its membership in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (Opec). Another risk is the outlook for oil demand, as it becomes relatively less important as an energy source, says David Oxley, chief climate and commodities economist at Capital Economics. "Oil demand is not going to fall off a cliff but it is no longer growing as it was. We see it as subdued and will start falling in the late 2030s," he says. "Anyone investing in the Venezuelan oil sector would have to think, is it worth it?" Even if Maduro were ousted or US barriers were to lift, Mr Oxley says it is not clear how willing companies would be to commit the time and money it would take to bring Venezuela's oil back online. "On the oil side, you'd need to see lots and lots of investment. Certainly in the billions,"  he says, "'Drill, baby, drill' - that's fine but private companies are only going to come in and do it if it's profitable." Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Conflict has spread across the Middle East since the US and Israel launched strikes on Iran on 28 February. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has arrived for a two-day visit to India, where he was embraced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi ahead of an annual summit held by both countries. Delhi and Moscow are expected to sign a number of deals during the visit, which comes months after the US increased pressure on India to stop buying Russian oil. It also comes as US President Donald Trump's administration holds a series of talks with Russia and Ukraine in an attempt to end the war. India and Russia have been close allies for decades and Putin and Modi share a warm relationship. Here's a look at why they both need each other - and what to watch for as they meet. Why are relations with India key for the Kremlin? Well, for a start, look at the numbers: That makes it a hugely attractive market for Russian goods and resources - especially oil. India is the world's third largest consumer of crude oil and has been buying large volumes from Russia. That wasn't always the case. Before the Kremlin's full-scale invasion of Ukraine, only 2.5% of India's oil imports were Russian. That figure jumped to 35% as India took advantage of Russian price discounts prompted by sanctions against Moscow and Russia's restricted access to the European market. India was happy. Washington less so. Earlier this year, the Trump administration slapped an additional 25% tariff on Indian goods, arguing that by purchasing oil from Russia, India was helping to fund the Kremlin's war chest. Orders from India for Russian oil have since dropped. President Putin will be keen for India to keep buying. For Moscow, weapons sales to India are another priority and have been since Soviet times. Ahead of Putin's visit, there were reports that India plans to purchase state-of-the-art Russian fighter jets and air defence systems. Russia, hit by a labour shortage, also sees India as a valuable source of skilled workers. But there's geopolitics at play, too. The Kremlin enjoys demonstrating that Western efforts to isolate it over the war in Ukraine have failed. Flying to India and meeting Prime Minister Modi is one way of doing that. So is travelling to China and holding talks with Xi Jinping, as Putin did three months ago. He met Modi on the same trip. The image of the three leaders smiling and chatting together sent a clear message that, despite the war in Ukraine, Moscow has powerful allies who support the concept of a "multi-polar world". Russia lauds its "no limits partnership" with China. It is just as vocal about its "special and privileged strategic partnership" with India. That is a stark contrast to Moscow's strained relationship with the European Union. "I think the Kremlin is sure that the West, including Europe, totally failed," believes Novaya Gazeta columnist Andrei Kolesnikov. "We are not isolated, because we have connections to Asia and the Global South. Economically, this is the future. In that sense Russia returned as the main actor in these parts of the globe, like the Soviet Union. But even the Soviet Union had special channels and connections to the US, West Germany and France. It had a multi-vector policy. "But now we are totally isolated from Europe. This is unprecedented. Our philosophers always said that Russia was a part of Europe. Now we're not. This is a big failure and a big loss. I'm sure that part of Russia's political and entrepreneurial class is dreaming of returning to Europe and of doing business not only with China and India." This week, though, expect to hear about Russia-India friendship, trade deals and increased economic cooperation between Moscow and Delhi. Putin's visit to Delhi is coming at a crucial time for Modi and India's global ambitions. India-Russia ties go back to the Soviet era and have endured irrespective of the changing geopolitical landscape. Putin has arguably put more time and energy into this relationship than other Russian leaders before him. As for Modi, despite coming under intense pressure from Western governments to criticise Russia over its war in Ukraine, he maintained that dialogue was the only way to resolve the conflict. This was India's "strategic autonomy" at play – with Modi occupying a particular place in the geopolitical order where he held close ties with Moscow while maintaining his relationship with the West at the same time. That worked - until Trump returned to the White House. India-US ties have hit an all-time low in recent months as the two countries have failed to resolve the tariff deadlock. In this context, Putin's visit assumes more significance for Modi than ever before because it will test India's geopolitical autonomy. He will be walking the proverbial diplomatic tightrope here. Modi would want to show Indians at home and in the wider world that he still counts Putin as his ally and hasn't given into pressure from Trump, whom he has earlier called his "true friend". But he has also faced pressure from his allies in Europe - just this week, the German, French and UK ambassadors in India wrote a rare joint article in a major newspaper criticising Russia's stance on Ukraine. And so, Modi will have to ensure that the strengthening of India-Russia ties does not overshadow ongoing trade talks with the US and his partnership with Europe. "For India, the challenge is strategic balance - protecting autonomy while navigating pressure from Washington and dependence on Moscow," said the Global Trade Research Initiative (GTRI), a Delhi-based think-tank. Modi's other priority will be to unlock the potential of bilateral trade between India and Russia. Analysts have often said that the economic relationship between the two strong allies has underperformed for decades. Their bilateral trade rose to $68.72bn at the end of March 2025, up from just $8.1bn in 2020. This was largely due to India sharply increasing discounted Russian oil purchases. This has skewed the balance heavily in favour of Russia and that is something Modi would want to correct. With Indian firms already reducing oil purchases from Russia to avoid sanctions from Washington, the two countries will look at other areas to boost trade. Defence is the easiest pick. India's defence imports from Russia reduced to 36% between 2020 and 2024, from the peaks of 72% in 2010-2015 and 55% between 2015 and 2019, according to Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. This was largely due to India's attempt to diversify its defence portfolio and boost domestic manufacturing. But a closer look at these numbers tells a different story. Several Indian defence platforms still rely heavily on Russia. Many of its 29 air force squadrons use Russian Sukhoi-30 jets. India's limited armed conflict with Pakistan in May this year proved the indispensable role of Russian platforms like the S-400 air defence systems in its armed forces but it also showed the vulnerabilities that the country urgently needs to fix. Reports suggest that India wants to buy the upgraded S-500 systems and the Su-57 fifth-generation fighter jet. Pakistan's purchase of the China-made J-35 fifth-generation stealth fighter has not gone unnoticed in Delhi, and it would want to secure a comparable jet as soon as possible. But Russia is already facing a shortage of critical components due to sanctions and the war in Ukraine. The deadline to deliver some units of the S-400 have reportedly been delayed to 2026. Modi will seek some guarantees on timelines with Putin. Modi would also want Russia's economy to open space for Indian products to fix the massive trade imbalance. "Consumer-oriented and high-visibility categories remain marginal: smartphones ($75.9m), shrimp ($75.7m), meat ($63m) and garments at just $20.94m underscore India's limited penetration in Russia's retail markets and electronics value chains despite geopolitical churn," GTRI said. Modi aims to position Indian goods in Russia's market, especially once the war ends and Moscow is reintegrated into the global economy. He would seek to lessen trade dependence on oil and defence, aiming for a deal that strengthens ties with Russia while leaving room to deepen relations with the West. "Putin's visit is not a nostalgic return to Cold War diplomacy. It is a negotiation over risk, supply chains and economic insulation. A modest outcome will secure oil and defence; an ambitious one will reshape regional economics," GTRI said. Follow BBC News India on Instagram, YouTube, Twitter and Facebook. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Makers of plastic and glass bottles are struggling to access raw materials as the war squeezes supplies. The order does not affect generic medicines, the most commonly used in the US. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Out on the western Baltic, a coastguard officer radios a nearby, sanctioned oil tanker. "Swedish Coastguard calling… Do you consent to answer a few questions for us? Over." Through heavy static, barely audible answers crackle over from a crew member, who gradually lists the ship's insurance details, flag state and last port of call – Suez, Egypt. "I think this ship will go up to Russia and get oil," says Swedish investigator, Jonatan Tholin. This is the front line of Europe's uneasy standoff with Russia's so-called "shadow fleet"; a term that commonly refers to hundreds of tankers used to bypass a price cap on Russian oil exports. After the Kremlin launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine, many Western countries imposed sanctions on Russian energy, which Moscow is accused of dodging by shipping oil on aged tankers often with obscure ownership or insurance. Some "shadow" ships are even suspected of undersea sabotage, illicit drone launches or "spoofing" their location data. Out on the waves, where freedom of navigation is a golden rule, the ability and appetite of coastal countries to intervene is limited, even though the risk they face is escalating. As the BBC has learned, a growing network of "shadow" ships are sailing without a valid national flag, which can render vessels stateless and without proper insurance. That is a troubling trend, given many are practically "floating rust buckets", says senior maritime intelligence analyst at Windward AI, Michelle Wiese Bockmann.  If there is an accident, like a billion-dollar oil spill, "good luck with trying to find somebody responsible to pick up any cost". Driven by record sanctions and tighter enforcement, the number of falsely flagged ships globally has more than doubled this year to over 450, most of them tankers, according to the International Maritime Organization (IMO) database. The BBC has been tracking one ship that appears to have sailed without a valid flag. The head of Estonia's navy, Commodore Ivo Värk, says they have seen dozens of such passing vessels this year whereas they used to see just one or two. The rise is alarming, he tells me, as we talk in his office overlooking the Gulf of Finland, a narrow gateway to the major Russian oil terminals of Ust-Luga and Primorsk. What's more, he suggests, it's brazen: "There's no secret made about it." We spot the tanker Unity on the MarineTraffic app, the day we board an Estonian (British-built) Minehunter that is also used in Nato's Baltic Sentry patrols to protect critical infrastructure. Journeying east, Unity is over 100 miles away but sailing in our direction. The BBC has investigated its history and it offers an illuminating insight into the enigmatic life of a shadow ship. Tracking data shows that Unity has passed through the English Channel four times in the last twelve months, including journeys between Russian ports and India; a key oil customer that has not signed up to the price cap. Originally known as Ocean Explorer, the tanker was built in 2009 and flew the flag of Singapore for more than a decade. Back in 2019, it was named in a UN report for alleged involvement in a ship-to-ship transfer with a vessel that had been sanctioned for its role in transporting fuel to North Korea - which is among other countries also charged with utilising elusive shadow ships. By late 2021, the vessel – which that year operated under the name Ocean Vela – took the flag of the Marshall Islands but was struck from that list in 2024, a registry spokesperson told us, because the ship's then-operator and beneficial owning company had been sanctioned by the UK. The tanker appears to have had three further names since 2021 (Beks Swan, March and Unity) and three further flags (Panama, Russia and Gambia) but always retains a unique IMO number. In August, ship broadcasting data shows Unity claimed the flag of Lesotho which was designated as "false". Lesotho is a small, landlocked African enclave kingdom that, according to the IMO, does not have an official registry. The BBC has tried to contact Unity's listed owner, a Dubai-registered company called FMTC Ship Charter LLC, but our emails and our calls went unanswered. The beneficial owners of 60% of shadow fleet vessels remain essentially unknown, according to maritime intelligence company Windward AI. Opaque ownership structures – and frequent name or flag changes – have become a signature trait of the shadow fleet as a means of avoiding detection. Purged from reputable registries and having circled the drain of poor-quality alternatives, some ships are now at a point "where they just don't even bother at all", says Michelle Wiese Bockmann. Unity's most recent journey saw it sail through the North Sea in late October before entering the Baltic and passing countries including Sweden and Estonia - the point at which we spotted it. By 6 November, it was anchored outside the Russian port of Ust-Luga where it remains at the time of publication. The tanker was added to the UK and EU's ever-growing list of sanctioned vessels earlier this year but, like so many others, continues to do business despite other difficulties. Back in January, it reportedly sheltered in the English Channel after suffering a mechanical failure during a storm. The following August it was reportedly detained at a Russian port due to technical issues and unpaid wages. Unity is just one of hundreds of vessels subject to UK and EU service and port bans as both London and Brussels try to increase pressure on the Kremlin. Nevertheless, Russian revenues from crude and oil product sales were $13.1bn (£9.95bn) in October alone, according to the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA) - although this was down by $2.3bn when compared with the same month a year ago. Analysis by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air finds that "shadow" tankers, either sanctioned or suspected, account for 62% of shipped Russian crude oil exports, while China and India are by far the biggest customers for crude, followed by Turkey and the European Union itself. While politicians talk of toughening action, navy and coastguard officers point out that a country's power to act fades the further you go out to sea. The right of innocent passage remains a cornerstone of maritime law, but stateless vessels technically are not entitled to it. Countries such as France, Finland and Estonia have detained ships, and they can do so where a crime is suspected, however such drastic controls remain a relatively rare event. "There's a complexity associated with it," argues Commodore Ivo Värk. "With the Russian presence next to our borders, the risk of escalation is too high to do it on a regular basis." The Estonians speak from experience. When they attempted to intercept a flagless tanker in May, Russia briefly deployed a fighter jet and has "constantly" had about two naval vessels in the Gulf of Finland since, says Commodore Värk. The fear of escalation sits alongside broader concerns of commercial retaliation if a more aggressive approach were to be taken. "Every day in the Baltic, there's suspicious activity," a Nato official told the BBC, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Nevertheless, the official added, "we don't want to be cowboys and jumping on ships. The act of monitoring ships is a deterrent in itself". "Freedom of navigation is the lifeblood of all of our economies." Back on the bridge of the Swedish coastguard ship, the radio call with the sanctioned tanker has wrapped up. "Thank you for your co-operation," says the officer as the vessel carries on towards Russia. The exchange lasted just over five minutes. "You need to see it in a larger perspective," says investigator Jonatan Tholin when I suggest these measures appear less than muscular: "This information can be used in our maritime surveillance." But as Europe steps up checks and watches the waves, Windward's Michelle Wiese Bockmann spies something else: "You can literally see the international rules-based order crumbling through the sanctions-circumventing tactics of these vessels." There is a lot at stake for the environment and on security, she says, and meanwhile "the dark fleet is getting darker". The BBC approached Russia's embassy in London for comment. In response, a spokesman said that the West's "anti-Russian sanctions" were "illegitimate" and "undermine established principles of global commerce". "Labelling ships used to export Russian oil as 'shadow fleet' is discriminatory and misleading," the embassy said, and instances of invalid flags were typically down to "easily resolved" issues such as administrative delays. It was sanctioning countries, the spokesperson said, that had "heightened" the risks by "forcing shipowners and operators to navigate an increasingly fragmented and restrictive regulatory landscape". Additional reporting by Adrienne Murray, Michael Steininger and Ali Zaidi Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An impasse over Russian oil and imminent US sanctions has put Serbia at loggerheads with its traditional ally in Moscow. Added differences over Russian gas supplies and Serbia's arms trade have ramped up the tensions, with Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic trading barbs with the Kremlin. The root of the problem, and the most pressing issue, is the fate of Serbia's national oil company. Russia's Gazprom and Gazprom Neft own more than half the shares of Petroleum Industry of Serbia (NIS). That has put the company in a tight spot, after US sanctions on NIS came into effect last month over its ties to Russia's energy industry. Serbian Energy Minister Dubravka Djedovic Handanovic has told the BBC that NIS's Russian owners have now asked the US for a waiver, which indicated "the Russian side was ready to transfer the control and influence upon the company to a third party". But she warns time is running out. The impact of US sanctions on NIS has been immediate. Its petrol stations have put up signs warning customers that Visa and Mastercard can no longer be used to pay for fuel, as the US credit card giants have stopped processing payments. The same applies to outlets of NIS's Russian shareholders. At a Gazprom service station on the motorway between Novi Sad and Belgrade, Bojan and his colleagues were taking no chances, pumping the petrol and diesel for their customers. That gave them the opportunity to check whether the drivers had the means to pay, and Bojan said about one in 10 customers did not – "mostly foreigners". A cash machine has been installed inside the service station just in case. NIS operates both of Serbia's oil refineries, providing more than four-fifths of its petrol and diesel, and almost all its jet and heavy fuels. Serbia is landlocked, so it relies on Croatia to deliver oil via its Janaf pipeline. But since sanctions kicked in, the flow has been cut off. The refineries will run out of crude to process before the end of November, which is why the energy minister says time is running out. Serbia is not the only Balkan country grappling with US sanctions. Neighbouring Bulgaria has passed legislation to take over its only oil refinery from Russian oil giant Lukoil, ahead of sanctions kicking in on 21 November. Hungary's Viktor Orban has secured a one-year waiver from his ally President Donald Trump. At the start of November a queue of NIS tankers could be seen waiting for entry to the jet fuel storage facilities at Belgrade's Nikola Tesla Airport, delivering supplies while they still could. National airline Air Serbia told the BBC that it was "adjusting [its] business activities" and had taken "the necessary steps" to ensure it could keep its planes in the air. Russia's shareholders have not been in a rush to sell their stakes in NIS, even though Belgrade says they are now prepared to act. Nationalisation would be another possibility, as in Bulgaria, but Serbia has been reluctant to follow suit, in large part due to its longstanding friendship with Russia. Unlike its neighbours it is not part of the EU, which has banned imports of Russian oil, although it is a candidate to join. The episode has undoubtedly strained relations with Moscow. Behind the scenes, there is a great deal of exasperation in Serbian government circles. The energy minister chose her words carefully, but her frustration was clear. "The overall income in the Gazprom group of NIS is insignificant," Dubravka Djedovic Handanovic told the BBC. "We know NIS is not crucial for Russia's energy sector and contributing significantly to any income for the Russian government. However, for Serbia it is very important." "These [US] sanctions will harm Serbian people, because of the majority share that NIS has in the market. NIS employs 13,500 people in Serbia, so employees are important for us as well as stability in the market." Serbia also relies on Russian gas, delivered at a highly favourable rate. But the current supply deal expires at the end of the year – and Moscow seems in no rush to renew, leaving President Vucic "very disappointed". "It is obvious we didn't get the gas agreement because there is a possibility that we could nationalise NIS," says Zeljko Markovic, a Serbian energy sector consultant. "We can supply Serbia without Russian gas, but the question is at what price? We have been using Russian gas at a lower than market price. And are we prepared with the contracts and the capacities?" Arms and ammunition exports have also soured relations with Russia. Serbia's defence companies have not supplied Ukraine directly, but they have made deliveries to third countries which then re-exported the munitions. Earlier this year, Moscow made it clear this was no longer acceptable – and President Vucic imposed an export embargo. But at the end of last month he changed tack, saying he was happy for Serbia to export arms and ammunition to EU countries, adding that the buyers could "do what they want" with the deliveries. This triggered a testy exchange between Russia's foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova and Vucic. If the bid for a US waiver works, then the sanctions will be lifted, and oil will start flowing to NIS's refineries again. But there is still no sign of a gas deal – and the extent of the damage to Serbian-Russian relations may be significant. Vucic often insists that Serbia's path leads towards the European Union. If nothing else, this episode may strengthen that conviction. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Donald Trump has exempted Hungary from sanctions over its continued purchases of Russian oil and gas for one year, a White House official has confirmed to BBC News. Earlier, the US president said he would consider an opt-out for Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban, a close Trump ally who has maintained good relations with Russia throughout the Ukraine war. Speaking on Friday during Orban's visit to the White House, Trump said an exemption was under consideration because "it's very difficult for him [Orban] to get the oil and gas from other areas". It comes after the US effectively blacklisted two of Russia's largest oil companies last month, threatening sanctions on those who buy from them. Following the meeting, Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó wrote on X that the US had given Budapest "a full and unlimited exemption from sanctions on oil and gas". A White House official later told the BBC that exemption was time-limited to one year, although on Saturday Szijjártó said it would be indefinite. This decision by Trump marks a major victory for Orban, who had said the sanctions would ruin his country's economy. During the public part of the meeting, Trump sounded sympathetic to Hungary's position as a landlocked country, dependent on oil and gas from Russia, but stopped short of giving a specific guarantee. But subsequently it became clear that the US president had granted an exemption for one year - seemingly flying in the face of his determination just two weeks ago to penalise anyone who did business with Russia's energy companies. Hungary has agreed to buy several hundred millions of dollars of US natural gas as part of the arrangement, but it is a deal likely to go down badly in many European capitals, most of whom have long opposed Hungary's friendly stance towards Moscow. Orban has long been a close personal and political ally of the president, echoing much of Donald Trump's populist right wing rhetoric over immigration and social issues. That loyalty seems to have earned the Hungarian prime minister some special treatment at a time when he is facing difficult elections in the spring. Trump added that while Hungary faced unique logistical challenges, including access to a sea that could be used to drill oil, he was "very disturbed" by other European countries that, he said, continued to buy Russian commodities despite not being landlocked. Orban, who has long resisted EU efforts to pressure Moscow over Ukraine, has defended his energy ties with Russia, saying on Friday that pipelines are neither "ideological" nor "political", but a "physical reality" due to the lack of ports. He has been using his country's heavy dependence on Russian oil and gas as a means to maintain his good relations with Moscow, as well as a platform upon which he hopes to win re-election next April in Hungary. He has promised "cheap Russian energy" to voters. Trump and Orban also discussed the war in Ukraine on Friday - their first formal meeting since Trump returned to power - including the possibility of holding talks with Putin. "He [Orban] understands Putin and knows him very well... I think that Viktor feels we're going to get that war ended in the not-too-distant future", Trump said. The Hungarian leader, meanwhile, claimed that only their two nations truly wanted peace in Ukraine. "All the other governments prefer to continue the war because many of them think that Ukraine can win on the front line, which is a misunderstanding of the situation." Trump asked him: "So you would say that Ukraine cannot win that war?" To which Orban replied: "You know, a miracle can happen." Aside from the issue of oil and gas sanctions, Hungary's export-driven car industry has been hit by Trump's tariffs on European goods, adding to an already weak economy. Despite frequent clashes with EU leaders over migration, democracy, and the rule of law, Trump urged Europe to "respect this leader very, very strongly because he's been right on immigration." With additional reporting by Nick Thorpe Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi calls the plan a "stupid notion that would be nothing more than a waste of taxpayer dollars". Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
"There is a war-opposing network in the world, with two focal points: one of power led by the US president and one of spirit found here with the Holy Father," Viktor Orban said last week after meeting Pope Leo at the Vatican. "We draw strength, motivation, and blessing from both," said the Hungarian prime minister. If his ally in the White House, US President Donald Trump, was on his mind, then his thoughts could well have turned to a tricky meeting that awaits him on Friday in Washington. The man Trump has called a "great leader", and who has long provoked admiration in Maga circles, suddenly finds himself in an unusual position - at odds with the US president on an issue of critical importance. At the centre of those talks will be new US pressure on Hungary and Slovakia to wean themselves urgently off Russian oil - Trump's latest gambit in his efforts to pressurise Russia into ending its war on Ukraine. Asked recently whether Trump had gone too far in imposing sanctions on Russia's two biggest oil companies, Orban said "from a Hungarian point of view, yes". Orban has been using his country's heavy dependence on Russian oil and gas to advance his own agenda in several ways. He has used it as a weapon to attack Brussels, as a means to maintain his good relations with Moscow, and as a platform upon which he hopes to win re-election next April in Hungary. He has promised "cheap Russian energy" to voters. He will go into this election portraying himself as a safe pair of hands in an increasingly uncertain world. But Orban is trailing in most opinion polls, after his government was shaken by the meteoric rise of opposition Tisza party leader Peter Magyar. The Hungarian PM has also been angered by repeated Ukrainian drone attacks on the Druzhba pipeline this summer, which briefly disrupted supplies to his country. Senior Hungarian officials have been hinting for months that they believe the war in Ukraine could be over by the end of the year - a seemingly absurd claim, until news of a planned summit in Budapest between Trump and Russian President Vladimir Putin broke last month. But Orban's carefully laid plans began to unravel on 21 October, when the White House announced that the summit  had been called off. Orban's government had been secretly working on the summit plans for months. Balazs Orban, Orban's political director (no relation), enjoys close relations with US Vice-President JD Vance, and is believed to have played an important role. Orban hopes to persuade Trump to ease the pressure on Hungary at least until the election when the pair meet in Washington. The Hungarian government appears to be counting on the idea that Trump is bored by the war in Ukraine, and wants to turn his back on it if no deal is done soon. Orban has sharply opposed Western military and financial support for Ukraine, and rules out Ukraine's membership of Nato and the EU. He portrays Trump as a pro-peace president, giving short shrift to what he sees as the warmongers of the EU. The climax of the cancelled summit in Budapest would have been the moment he appeared on the balcony of the Carmelite Convent on Castle Hill, overlooking the Danube, flanked by Presidents Trump and Putin. How could Hungarians vote against such an internationally successful leader, he might have asked. In Rome last week, despite US dismissals, Orban insisted the summit would still happen - it was just a question of time. At the weekend, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov quietly suggested the same. The biggest issue souring US-Hungary relations is oil. In 2024, Hungary even increased the amount of oil it receives through the Druzhba (Friendship) pipeline from Russia. On 23 October, just as Orban was addressing a rally of his supporters in front of Parliament in Budapest, the US announced sanctions on the two giant Russian oil companies, Lukoil and Rosneft. Hungary received 64% of its oil through the Friendship pipeline from Russia, via Belarus and Ukraine, in 2020. By 2024 that figure stood at 80%, or 5 million tonnes a year. The Hungarian government argues that land-based pipelines are the cheapest way to receive oil, and that with no sea coast of its own, it has no alternative. Much smaller quantities are also imported from Kazakhstan, Croatia, Iraq, and Azerbaijan. Another issue is that Russian Urals crude has a higher sulphur content than the Brent crude supplied from elsewhere. The major Hungarian refinery at Szazhalombatta, run by Hungarian oil giant MOL, and the Slovnaft refinery in Slovakia, also run by MOL, are both set up to process mostly Urals crude, not Brent. Within the EU, Orban is now the longest standing leader. Far from leaving the bloc, he wants to remake it in his own image, as a union of sovereign nations. For this, he has also won praise from Putin. But Hungary's argument that it cannot change is undermined by the Czech example. That is a country with a similar population to Hungary, and also landlocked. The Czech Republic traditionally relied heavily on Russian crude for the eight million tonnes of oil it needs a year. Starting in early 2022, following the full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Czech government under Prime Minister Petr Fiala invested heavily in improving the existing Transalpine pipeline to the Italian port of Trieste. At the same time, its refineries at Kralupy and Litvínov were adapted for Brent crude. In April 2025, the Czech authorities announced proudly that they were no longer receiving a drop of Russian oil. Energy experts say that while MOL, the Hungarian oil giant, is quietly changing its technology, what is missing is a political decision from the government to shift to the Adria pipeline from the Croatian port of Omisalj. There are also disputes between the Croatian company Janaf and MOL - over just how much oil the pipeline could support. When the pair meet, Trump will urge Orban to show some political will to wean itself off Russian supplies. But Orban might see that as a hard decision to explain to Hungarian voters. After arguing for years that Hungary cannot survive without Russian oil and gas, he would lose face if it turns out it can. Matt Whitaker, US ambassador to Nato, said in a Fox News interview last week that Hungary had still "not made any active steps" to end its dependence on Russian oil. "There's a lot of planning our friends in Hungary will have to do," he said, and promised US help to Hungary and Croatia to make it happen. As the seagull flies, Omisalj is only 44 miles (70km) from Trieste. Seaborne oil from Kazakhstan, Libya, Azerbaijan, the US and Iraq could soon be flowing through the Adria pipeline to Hungary too. Despite Orban's dire warnings of price hikes, there is no data - so far at least - to suggest that Czech consumers have to pay more. There is nothing his old friend Donald Trump likes more than striking a deal. Orban is about to find out how persuasive the US president can be. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A week-long public inquiry will be held in April 2026 as part of a long-running legal dispute over oil drilling in the Lincolnshire Wolds. The decision to approve an oilfield in Biscathorpe was quashed in July last year following a Supreme Court judgement after a claim was brought in by local campaign group SOS Biscathorpe. The developer Egdon Resources appealed the decision and the Planning Inspectorate has confirmed an inquiry will take place between 14 and 21 April at Kenwick Park Hotel, Louth. Campaigner Amanda Suddaby believed it would be "a step up from the public hearing that was held in 2022". Egdon Resources did not want to comment when approached by the BBC. The application for an oil well at Biscathorpe was initially refused by Lincolnshire County Council in 2021, but the developer successfully appealed it before it was taken to the High Court. In 2024, justices at the Supreme Court said emissions created by burning fossil fuels should be considered when granting planning permission for new drilling sites. In July, Egdon Resources said it had submitted an assessment of the greenhouse gas emissions which was published on the Lincolnshire County Council website on Wednesday. Amanda Suddaby from SOS Biscathorpe said: "Flooding, coastal erosion, and extreme weather aren't distant problems - they're happening on our doorstep. "They affect our homes, our farms, our local businesses, and our family budgets through rising insurance and food costs. "Most of all, they threaten the natural environment that sustains us — the land, water, and wildlife that make Lincolnshire such a special place to live." Egdon Resources was approached by the BBC but did not want to comment. Listen to highlights from Lincolnshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Bottles and cans are exchanged for a printed ticket that can be swapped for rewards. Merthyr South Wales Ltd sparked anger after submitting a new - and cheaper - restoration plan. An island colony whose koalas are free of chlamydia could help save the wider population from the deadly disease. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Brazil's state oil firm has received a licence to conduct exploratory oil drilling in the sea off the Amazon, despite environmental concerns about the project. The approval will allow Petrobras to drill in a block located in Amapá, 500km (311 miles) from the mouth of the Amazon River on the Brazilian Equatorial Margin. The company said it had demonstrated to the government that it had robust environmental protection structures in place. But many conservationists have raised concerns about plans, including fears that any oil spills would be in proximity, via sea currents, to the Amazon, which is home to around 10% of the world's known species. Groups such as Greenpeace have also raised concerns it could undermine Brazil's climate leadership ahead of hosting the COP30 climate summit in the Amazonian city of Belém in November. The International Energy Agency has also been clear that no new oil projects should be approved if the target of net zero global emissions is to be reached by 2050. Petrobras said in a statement that drilling was scheduled to begin "immediately" and that it would last for five months. The company is seeking to assess whether there is oil and gas in the area on an economically viable scale. It would not produce oil commercially at this stage. Brazil's environment minister, Marina Silva, has opposed oil exploration in the Amazon region. But the South American nation's President Lula da Silva has supported it for economic reasons and recently defended his stance. Lula told the BBC in September: "Brazil is a country that has oil. And possibly we have oil in the Equatorial Margin, and we are making surveys. We're following the law strictly." He said that if there was a problem or an oil spill, then "we will be the ones that are liable and responsible to take care of the problem, if it comes". He added: "I am totally in favour of a world one day that will not need any more fossil fuels, but this moment has not come yet. "I want to know [of] any country on the planet that is prepared to have an energy transition and can give up fossil fuels." Other international oil companies, including Exxonmobil and Chevron, have bought "blocks" in the Amazon region and are awaiting licences to explore. Petrobras said it was committed to ensuring the country's "energy security and the resources needed for a just energy transition". It added that the company was able to "demonstrate the robustness of the entire environmental protection structure that will be available during drilling". Former Chelsea and Brazil midfielder Oscar retires after being diagnosed with a heart condition. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Lawmakers in the Brazilian Congress view the law change as a reflection of pets' importance for their owners. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
First came the tariffs in August - 50% duties on Indian goods, dressed up as punishment for buying Russian oil. Then came US President Donald Trump's claim on Wednesday that Indian PM Narendra Modi had privately agreed to end those purchases "within a short period of time". Next day, Russia responded cautiously, while India distanced itself from his comments. Russia's envoy in Delhi, Denis Alipov, said its oil was "very beneficial for the Indian economy and for the welfare of Indian people". The Indian government said its import policy was "guided by the interests of the Indian consumer in a volatile energy scenario", and later a spokesperson added he was unaware of  "any conversation yesterday" between Modi and Trump. Caught between an old ally in Moscow and mounting pressure from Washington, India's energy policy has become a delicate balancing act. But just how critical is Russian oil to the Indian economy? Last year, India, the world's third-largest oil importer, bought $52.7bn of Russian crude - 37% of its oil bill - followed by Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Nigeria, and the US. But how did India's energy mix come to look like this? Before the Russian imports surged, India's top 10 crude suppliers in 2021-22 were Russia, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the US, Brazil, Kuwait, Mexico, Nigeria, and Oman. The remaining 31 countries formed a long tail of smaller, opportunistic deals that ebb and flow with global prices. Despite some popular perception that India relies solely on Russian oil, it also imports significant volumes from the US. In 2024, India bought $7.7bn of American petroleum products - including $4.8bn of crude - but still ran a $3.2bn petroleum trade deficit with Washington, according to Global Trade Research Initiative (GTRI), a Delhi-based think tank. Between 2018-19 and 2021-22, India's oil basket underwent its first major shift. Imports from Iran and Venezuela - once 17% of the total or 41 million tonnes - were phased out, their place largely filled by traditional suppliers such as Iraq, Saudi Arabia and the UAE, according to a study by Partha Mukhopadhyay of the Centre for Policy Research, a Delhi-based think tank. Both countries faced heavy sanctions, making it difficult for India to continue importing oil from them. The second transition came with the Ukraine war. India's imports of Russian oil soared from 4 million tonnes in 2021-22 to over 87 million tonnes in 2024-25. The surge was driven by discounts offered by Russia after Western sanctions, making its crude more attractive to Indian refiners. After 2021-22, Russian oil averaged a 14.1% discount in 2022-23 and 10.4% in 2023-24, saving India roughly $5bn a year- or 3–4% of its crude import bill. While the Gulf trio - Iraq, Saudi Arabia and the UAE - saw their share fall by 11 percentage points, their actual volumes held steady as India's overall imports rose from 196 million to 244  million tonnes. The adjustment fell largely on others: imports from the US, Brazil, Kuwait, Mexico, Nigeria and Oman more than halved, and the "rest" of 31 smaller suppliers also declined. A few, like Angola and South Korea, bucked the trend, and even Venezuela made a modest return. "Thus, the increase in imports from Russia has been accompanied by a decrease in imports from many countries, some of whom saw a drastic fall in their exports to India," says Mr Mukhopadhyay. In other words, Russia's rise came at the expense of nearly everyone else. For India, the savings from discounted Russian oil remain modest - under 1% of India's $900bn goods and services import bill - but still add up to a substantial $9bn. "If India were to halt Russian purchases, global oil prices could rise, wiping out those savings and adding even more to import costs - not just for India, but worldwide. In effect, buying discounted Russian crude has helped Delhi cushion its economy while quietly stabilising global prices," says Mr Mukhopadhyay. That said, oil prices have fallen 27% this year, from $78 to $59 per barrel - far more volatility than a halt in Indian imports from Russia could cause. Weak demand in the overall market also makes it easier for other countries to compensate for the 4–5% of global production these imports represent, he notes. Ajay Srivastava, a former Indian trade official and head of the GTRI, says for India, Russian oil "offers price stability and refinery compatibility". "Most Indian refineries are calibrated for heavier crude grades similar to Russia's Urals blend. Replacing those with light US shale would require costly reconfiguration and could cut yields of diesel and jet fuel, says Mr Srivastava. The Urals blend is a medium-to-heavy Russian crude oil, meaning Indian refineries are well-suited to process it efficiently without major adjustments. For Delhi, the trade-off is stark: continue with discounted Russian oil and risk US retaliation, or shift to costlier Middle Eastern and American grades and face higher domestic fuel prices, says Mr Srivastava. As Washington tightens the screws, India finds itself on the horns of a dilemma - the delayed India-US trade deal hangs in the balance, and the choice between short-term gains and long-term costs could define the next phase of bilateral ties. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. A new exhibition charts Bombay's passage through the centuries via paintings, photographs and prints. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Monday's meeting between Russia's Vladimir Putin, China's Xi Jinping and India's Narendra Modi marked a rare display of solidarity - and an opportunity for Putin to engage directly with his country's top oil buyers. India and China were drawn to Russian oil, which became cheaper after Western countries cut trade ties with Moscow over its 2022 invasion of Ukraine. But Beijing, New Delhi and Moscow have taken their ties deeper. They now share a common antagonist in the US, which has imposed sanctions on Russia and put sweeping tariffs on its trading partners. India is reeling from some of the highest duties imposed by Washington for buying oil from Russia. China is still negotiating a deal with the US that would stave off crippling tariffs and possible sanctions for buying Russian crude. The three leaders met at Tianjin for the Shanghai Co-operation Organisation (SCO) summit. The regional forum aims to promotes an alternative worldview from the West's - in what analysts have described as a challenge to America's influence. The forum gives the leaders a rare chance reinforce ties during ongoing economic uncertainty, analysts told the BBC. Russia has the opportunity to secure more business with India and China, its largest trade partners, they said. The two most populous countries have helped prop up Moscow's economy after its invasion of Ukraine left it cut off from most Western trade. Last year, China purchased a record of more than 100 million tonnes of Russian crude oil, which accounted for almost 20% of its total energy imports. Likewise, oil exports to India, which made up only a small fraction of its imports before the Ukraine war, has since grown to some $140bn (£103.5bn) since 2022. Together, China and India make up the majority of Russia's energy exports. Russia relies on oil and gas exports for roughly a quarter of its budget revenues, which is funding its war chest. It wouldn't be surprising if Moscow offers further discounts in order to secure more trade with India and China, public policy expert Mandar Oak told the BBC. This is especially necessary for India to ensure it does not back away due to pressure from the US, said Prof Oak from the University of Adelaide. New Delhi had offered Russia a lifeline after much of the oil supplies displaced by Western sanctions were diverted to India, which benefited from cheaper energy. India could now be on course to buy even more oil from Russia, despite condemnation from Washington. Modi on Monday affirmed ties with Moscow, telling Putin their countries "have walked together shoulder to shoulder". New Delhi officials have also said it will buy energy from where it gets "the best deal". Delhi-Washington ties hit an all-time low after the Trump administration imposed an additional 25% tariff as a punishment for buying Russian oil. New Delhi described the White House's decision as "unjustified", given their history of trade. For Prime Minister Modi, the move would burnish his image at home. "Politically, it is almost beneficial for Modi to snub the US" as it sends a signal that India will not buckle down to pressure from the Trump administration, Prof Oak said. Buying more Russian oil is economically sound as India relies heavily on foreign suppliers for crude. India was once a key customer of the Middle East, but turned to discounted crude from Russia after Western sanctions were imposed on Moscow following the Ukraine invasion in 2022. Indian refiners have since enjoyed lower costs due to cheaper supplies, with Russian oil cheaper than Middle Eastern alternatives. China, which has also ramped up its purchases of oil from Russia, will be eager to safeguard its energy interests as the leaders gather at the summit, said trade policy expert Peter Draper. On Tuesday, Russian and Chinese gas corporations agreed to raise supplies to the Asian nation. But Russia might not offer the same discounts to China, especially if Putin secures more sales to India, said Prof Draper. Beyond trade, perhaps China's main goal at the SCO summit is to show it can be a strong alternative to the US, especially after Trump's recent policy moves, said Prof Draper. At the forum, China stands alongside countries like Pakistan, Myanmar and Sri Lanka that have all been hit with Trump's tariffs. China has long desired to promote a "multi-polar" world order, Prof Draper said, referring to the concept of a system in which power is distributed among several major players. The summit has brought together three countries whose economic ties have long been complicated by geopolitical tensions, said Prof Oak. But in the face of the economic threat of the US tariffs, the countries have "strong economic interests to join hands", he said. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The US president said he'll bring Iran "back to the Stone Age" but gave no detail on ending the war. The order does not affect generic medicines, the most commonly used in the US. US tariffs stand at the highest rate in decades. But what has the impact been? Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
People living near the site of a proposed gas-drilling rig have been asked to give their views on the plans to the Environment Agency (EA). Earlier this year, Europa Oil & Gas submitted a planning application for a rig in Burniston, north of Scarborough, which would explore the potential for extracting gas. The scheme has drawn criticism from some residents, politicians and campaign groups, but the firm insisted it would comply with "industry best practice" and environmental standards. With North Yorkshire Council's decision on the plan still pending, the company applied to the EA for the environmental permit it also needed for the venture. Under the scheme, Europa would use a technique likened by opponents to "small-scale fracking". The firm previously said the move would be positive for the local economy and "no-one is going to notice" its presence. The EA said it wanted people to "get in touch with comments on local environmental factors that people feel are important" while it conducted a "rigorous" assessment of the plans. It said it would have to grant the permit if all legal requirements were met by Europa. The EA objected to the planning application in May, adding the proposals risked polluting groundwater in the area. In response, Europa said its proposed drilling methods were "established and applied over decades in the industry, in this country and worldwide". Asking the EA to remove its objection, the company added: "For the avoidance of doubt, Europa reconfirms that the well design will follow Health and Safety Executive guidelines and meet environmental standards acceptable to the EA." The consultation ends on 19 September. Listen to highlights from North Yorkshire on BBC Sounds, catch up with the latest episode of Look North. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
BP has said it "can and will do better" to develop and monetise its oil and gas production as the energy giant continues to shift away from renewables and back to fossil fuels. Chief executive Murray Auchincloss said the UK-based firm would review how it manages its oil and gas assets and will consider cost cutting plans to boost returns for shareholders. The pledge comes after the company revealed it has made its largest oil and gas discovery this century off the coast of Brazil. BP has been under ongoing pressure from investors for underperforming compared to its rivals in recent years. In February, BP slashed its planned investments in renewable energy projects and said it would spend billions of dollars more a year on its oil and gas operations in a bid to improve investor confidence. On Tuesday, Mr Auchincloss said BP would conduct a "thorough review" of its businesses to make sure it was "maximising shareholder value moving forward". "We are also initiating a further cost review," he said. "BP can and will do better for its investors." The comments came after BP revealed on Monday that it was conducting tests at a new oil and gas site in deep water off Brazil's east coast. The discovery could play a major role in BP's plans to increase crude oil production. Company executive Gordon Birrell says the discovery is "BP's largest in 25 years" and that the firm will explore building a production hub there. BP said it had found a roughly 300-square-kilometre area of oil and gas at the Bumerangue block in the Santos basin, 250 miles (400km) off Brazil's east coast. It said the discovery was the company's biggest since the Shah Deniz gas field in the Caspian Sea in 1999. The find adds to BP's several other discoveries of energy reserves this year, including those in the Gulf of Mexico, which is called the Gulf of America by the administration of US President Donald Trump, and Egypt. "This is another success in what has been an exceptional year so far for our exploration team", said Mr Birrell, the firm's executive vice president for production and operations. BP's attempt to transform itself into a "net zero" energy producer has faced major hurdles since it put the plan into action five years ago. In 2020, the Covid-19 pandemic pushed it to a $5.7bn (£4.29bn) annual loss. It also took a $25bn hit two years later from writing off a stake in its Russian energy business after the start of the Ukraine war. However, on Tuesday it revealed better-than-expected results for the second quarter of 2025. Underlying replacement cost profits fell by 15% compared with the same six months in 2024 to $2.4bn, but that was better than the $1.8bn analysts had forecast - and an improvement on the first quarter figure. Derren Nathan, head of equity research at Hargreaves Lansdown, said a "slick turnaround plan pumped up BP's second-quarter results", despite lower oil and gas prices. He attributed the performance to among other things, increases in production and the company "upping the ante when it comes to exploration and development", culminating in this week's announcement of the find at Bumerangue. BP's share price has come under pressure in recent years as it pumped billions of dollars into renewable energy, while rival companies benefited from soaring oil and gas prices in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Last month, BP announced it had appointed Albert Manifold to succeed Helge Lund as chair of the company. In April, Mr Lund announced his intention to step down, two months after BP revealed its plan to cut its renewable energy investments and instead focus on increasing oil and gas production. The energy giant had come under pressure from some investors who felt it was underperforming compared to rivals. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The US president said he'll bring Iran "back to the Stone Age" but gave no detail on ending the war. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US Secretary of State Marco Rubio has said that Delhi's relationship with Moscow remains a "point of irritation" in India-US ties. Rubio's statement comes a day after US President Donald Trump said he would impose 25% tariffs on Indian goods "plus an unspecified penalty", for buying Russian oil and weapons. In an interview to Fox News Radio on Thursday, Rubio called India an "ally" and "strategic partner" but added that Delhi's purchase of Russian oil was hampering its relationship with Washington. Russian oil made up 35% to 40% of India's oil imports in 2024 - up from 3% in 2021. India has not officially commented on Rubio's statement. Delhi has defended its purchases of Russian oil, arguing that as a major energy importer, it must buy the cheapest available crude to protect millions of poor Indians from rising costs. India ramped up its purchase of cheaper Russian crude after the Ukraine war began,  triggered by sanctions from the West. Rubio acknowledged India's reasons for buying Russian oil, noting that the country had huge energy needs and that it was buying from Moscow because of its discounted prices. But he added that this was fuelling the Russian war effort in Ukraine. "I think what you're seeing the President express is the very clear frustration that with so many other oil vendors available, India continues to buy so much from Russia," he added, alluding to Trump's threat of imposing penalties on Indian companies buying Russian oil and weapons. Reuters news agency reported that India's state-owned refineries like Hindustan Petroleum Corp (HPCL), Bharat Petroleum Corp (BPCL), Mangalore Refinery Petrochemical Ltd (MRPL) and Indian Oil Corp (IOCL) had stopped importing Russian crude since the past week due to lowered discounts. The BBC has reached out to the companies for comment. HSBC Global Investment Research also said there was a "significant decline" already in India's oil purchases from Russia in July. India's petroleum ministry has denied asking state-run refiners to stop buying Russian crude. But last month, Petroleum Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said India could meet its oil needs from other sources if US sanctions disrupted Russian supplies. He said India had widened its pool of oil suppliers from 27 to about 40 countries. Any diversification in India's oil imports away from Russia is expected to have a minimal impact on India's current account deficit - the gap between the value of a country's exports and imports and international transfers of capital - according to CareEdge, a ratings agency. "The price differential between Russian Ural and Brent Crude has significantly narrowed to around $3 per barrel from an average of $20 per barrel in 2023," CareEdge said in a note. Meanwhile Trump's comments about India's trade ties with Russia have evoked a sharp reaction in Moscow. On Wednesday, Trump posted on Truth Social that he didn't care how the two countries handled their relationship. "They can take their dead economies down together, for all I care," he wrote. On Friday, the Deputy Chairman of Russia's Security Council, Dmitry Medvedev responded to Trump's "dead economies" comment with what seemed like a warning. He urged Trump to imagine the zombie TV drama The Walking Dead, referencing the Soviet Union's  system for a last-resort nuclear strike. "As for the talk about the 'dead economies' of India and Russia, and 'entering dangerous territory' - maybe he should recall his favourite movies about 'the walking dead,' and also remember how dangerous the so-called 'Dead Hand,' which doesn't even exist, could be," Medvedev wrote on Telegram. The 'Dead Hand' was a Cold War-era Soviet system allegedly built to launch nuclear weapons automatically if it detected an attack - without human orders. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Unions and political parties have called on the government to intervene and keep the Lindsey Oil Refinery open. Energy Minister Michael Shanks announced the plant in North East Lincolnshire was to shut after the government said it was unable to find a buyer for it. The Official Receiver took over the site in Immingham last month after its owner, Prax, went into administration, putting 420 jobs at risk. Unite the Union general secretary Sharon Graham said: "The government can't sit on the sidelines any longer." She added: "The Lindsey refinery is critical national infrastructure and is essential for the UK's fuel supply and the health of the regional economy. "The government needs to reverse the premature decision to stop buying crude oil and to extend the time to find a viable long-term solution for the site." Ms Graham's views were echoed by Reform UK, which said it was "shocked that after just three weeks, the Government has given up on the Lindsey Oil Refinery". A statement, co-signed by Greater Lincolnshire mayor Dame Andrea Jenkyns and the leader of Lincolnshire County Council Sean Matthews, said the party believed  "a different course of action is essential". "We understand from our sources that the refinery can be profitable with the right management and ownership structure," the statement said. "The Government should be looking at joint venture structures, such as the site being publicly owned and bringing in top operating expertise in a public private profit share arrangement." Unite previously said the closure of the Immingham refinery could affect up to 1,000 jobs when taking into account contractors and the supply chain. In a written statement in the House of Commons earlier, Shanks said: "The Official Receiver has rigorously assessed all the bids received and concluded that sale of the business as a whole is not a credible option. "Having visited some of the workers on site on 17 July, I know this will be hugely disappointing news for them, their families and the local community. "A package has been offered to all those directly employed at the refinery, which guarantees jobs and pay over the coming months." He added that the Official Receiver was exploring various proposals for assets. "I therefore remain hopeful that a solution will be found that creates future employment opportunities at the Immingham site," he said. Prax is living on borrowed time. The government is talking about timetables for closing its various functions. Crude oil processing will stop at the end of this month with fuels and oils being sold in the weeks that follow - until they run out. Ministers are calling on the owners of the site to, in their words, "do the right thing" and offer financial support to the hundreds who are losing their jobs. The Government is asking the insolvency service to investigate how the financial health of Prax was allowed to decline so sharply. The trade unions are continuing to call for government intervention to keep the plant operational in the long term. But that level of support is looking unlikely. Listen to highlights from Lincolnshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Coventry faces its most consequential local election in more than two decades. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An oil refinery is to shut after the government said it was unable to find a buyer for it. The Official Receiver took over the Lindsey Oil Refinery in North East Lincolnshire last month after its owner Prax went into administration, putting 420 jobs at risk. Energy Minister Michael Shanks said "no credible offers have been made to purchase the entire refinery and it will be winding down operations". Prax Group, which is led by chairman and chief executive Sanjeev Kumar Soosaipillai, purchased the refinery from French company Total in 2021. In a statement, Shanks said: "We are deeply disappointed with the untenable position in which the owners left Prax Lindsey Oil Refinery. "Our sympathies are with the workers, their families and the local community. "While we continue to strongly encourage the owners to do the decent thing and publicly commit to making a voluntary financial contribution to support workers, all those directly employed at the refinery are guaranteed jobs over the coming months. "The government will immediately fund a comprehensive Training Guarantee for these refinery workers to ensure they have the skills they need and are supported to find jobs in the growing clean energy workforce." He added that the Official Receiver "continues to pursue interest in individual assets". Local Conservative MP Martin Vickers described the closure as "very bad news" for the area. He called for the government to support the plant for longer "while more possible offers came in". "Of course, it's not the government's fault that it's got into difficulties, " he said. "But I would have hoped they would recognise the importance of a piece of the national infrastructure." Vickers said he had tabled a question in the House of Commons about the refinery's future. The Unite union previously said the closure of the Immingham refinery could affect up to 1,000 jobs when taking into account contractors and the supply chain. Mick Simpson, from Unite, said the insolvency team had told the union there would be no redundancies of core workers "before 31 October". "People are going to be worried for their livelihoods," he said. "Things like mortgages and their bills still need paying and it's going to be very difficult to find alternative suitable employment for so many people all at one time." Worker Dan Wood described the mood at the refinery as "very low", adding that staff were in limbo. "Why can't the government do what they've done with British Steel?," he said. "They are funding the running cost of British Steel, I believe. Why can't we do something similar?" The Department for Energy Security said the Prax Group's financial reports indicated the plant had recorded losses of about £75m between the takeover in 2021 and February 2024. Lindsey is the smallest of the UK's oil refineries, according to the government. It is located next to the larger Phillips 66 Humber refinery, which continues to operate. Listen to highlights from Lincolnshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Download the BBC News app from the App Store for iPhone and iPad or Google Play for Android devices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A campaign group is urging residents to have their say on the latest stage of a long-running legal battle over oil drilling in the Lincolnshire Wolds. The decision to approve an oilfield in Biscathorpe was quashed in July last year following a Supreme Court judgement after a claim had been brought in by SOS Biscathorpe. Last year, justices at the Supreme Court said emissions created by burning fossil fuels should be considered when granting planning permission for new drilling sites. The public have until 28 July to submit their opinions on further information submitted by the developer, Egdon Resources, on the potential climate impact of burning extracted oil. Mark Abbott, chief executive officer at Edgon Resources, said the company had submitted an assessment of the greenhouse gas emissions at the request of the Planning Inspectorate. The documents can be viewed on the planning applications portal on Lincolnshire County Council's website. The application for an oil well at Biscathorpe was initially refused by Lincolnshire County Council in 2021, but the company successfully appealed it before it was taken to the High Court. SOS Biscathorpe, which has been fighting the plans for years, said the development "delivers almost nothing for national energy security, while threatening the integrity of one of Lincolnshire's most treasured natural areas". Mr Abbott said: "Although we are in transition away from fossil fuels, we are still highly reliant on oil and gas for transportation, heating our homes and running our businesses." According to the Local Democracy Reporting Service, Egdon Resources previously said it could potentially extract 6.5 million barrels of oil over 15 years at the site. People wanting to submit their opinions can do so by writing to the Planning Inspectorate using the Planning Inspectorate Portal on its website, a document on the appeal application stated. Listen to highlights from Lincolnshire on BBC Sounds, watch the latest episode of Look North or tell us about a story you think we should be covering here. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A licence to drill for oil and gas at a site in Surrey has reportedly been relinquished by UK Oil & Gas (UKOG). The firm had previously applied to explore the site in Dunsfold, with the application approved by the government, despite it twice being refused by the local council. Waverley Borough Council said the decision for UKOG to surrender its licence marked a "significant victory for the local community, environmental campaigners and the council". UKOG chief executive Stephen Sanderson said the divestment was in keeping with the company's transition away from hydrocarbons into the clean hydrogen storage and production sector. Local farmers previously argued that the disruption to traffic, businesses and the environment were not in proportion to potential benefits. Following the decision, councillor Steve Williams said it was a "momentous day for our community and our environment". "The decision by UKOG to surrender their licence is a testament to the tireless efforts of residents and campaigners who have stood firm in their opposition to this project," he said. "It is a clear message that the protection of our natural heritage and the well-being of our residents must come first." Council leader Paul Follows added that the decision was "a step in the right direction" and reinforced the council's commitment to protecting the environment for future generations. Meanwhile, Sir Jeremy Hunt said drilling in Dunsfold was "always a ridiculous idea and would have ruined the area". He added: "This is wonderful news and totally the right decision." UKOG previously said the project would benefit energy and economic interests. The firm said it would be able to extract gas from the Dunsfold site worth £123m, and that the project was in keeping with the government's Hydrogen, Energy Security and Net Zero strategies. Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook and X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. Penlee House buys the work from 1908 for £65k for its permanent public collection. Guildford Borough Council plans to reach net zero carbon emissions by 2030. Parks, allotments and buildings move to parish councils as Waverley approves community transfers. Homeowners in Waverley are campaigning after they were billed thousands of pounds in fees. The Godalming Navigations Conservation Area comprises a length of the River Wey. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Oil prices tumbled by 5% on Tuesday after Israel agreed to a ceasefire with Iran after nearly two weeks of conflict. Brent crude, the international benchmark for oil prices, fell below $67 a barrel by the end of the day, though it then recovered some ground in later trading. Prices had spiked in recent days as concerns grew that Tehran could disrupt global supplies by blockading the Strait of Hormuz, a key shipping route for oil and gas. Stock markets in the US, the UK and Europe rose and held steady after US President Donald Trump told Israel on social media not to drop bombs after it accused Iran of breaching the ceasefire. Just hours earlier, Trump had declared the ceasefire was "now in effect", after which Israel confirmed that it had agreed to the move. Oil prices have soared to as much as $81 a barrel since the missile strikes began, stoking fears that the cost of living could increase as petrol, diesel and business expenses grew. Crude is currently trading at $67.68, below the level it was at when Israel launched missiles against Iran's nuclear sites on 13 June. "If the ceasefire is followed as announced, investors might expect the return to normalcy in oil," said Priyanka Sachdeva, senior market analyst at Phillip Nova. But she added that "the extent to which Israel and Iran adhere to the recently announced ceasefire conditions will play a significant role in determining oil prices". The fall in prices narrowed as Israel claimed that Iran had violated the ceasefire after accusing Tehran of launching a missile strike. Stock markets in the US closed higher. The S&P 500, the Dow Jones Industrial Average and the Nasdaq all rose by more than 1%. In Europe, the UK's FTSE 100 index in the UK closed flat, while Germany's Dax increased by 1.6%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei share index closed up 1.1%. The Middle East conflict had pushed global energy prices higher, which if sustained would have a knock-on effect on energy bills and petrol prices. Wholesale UK gas prices dropped by 17% on Tuesday after spiking higher earlier in the day. Qatar is a major supplier of liquefied natural gas, which is transported through the Strait of Hormuz. On Monday, Iran had launched missiles at a US military base in Qatar in  retaliation for American strikes against Iran's nuclear sites. The recent rises in oil prices had led to fears that increased energy costs could make everything - from petrol and food to holidays - more expensive around the world, including in the UK. That is what happened after Russia invaded Ukraine three years ago, affecting people's lives around the globe. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The recent conflict in the Middle East has led to sharp swings in the oil price. The price of Brent crude, the global benchmark for oil, hit a five-month high of $81.40 at one point after the US bombed nuclear sites in Iran. But news of a ceasefire has helped the price to fall back to about $69 a barrel. The oil price is closely-watched as it can far-reaching consequences for countries across the world, including the UK. Higher energy costs can make many goods more expensive, as seen following Russia's invasion of Ukraine three years ago. The conflict had raised fears that Iran could decide to block traffic going through the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world's most important oil shipping routes. The Strait of Hormuz is a channel between Iran and the northernmost tip of Oman, linking the Persian Gulf with the Arabian Sea. At its narrowest point it is just 33km (20 miles) across – about the same width as the English Channel. It is one of the world's most important shipping routes. About 20% of global oil and gas flows through this narrow shipping lane. On any given day, about a fifth of the world's oil and gas, worth $600bn, passes through it, from Gulf states such as Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Iran itself. On Sunday night, Iran's Press TV reported that the country's parliament had approved a measure to close the channel, a move which would have profound consequences for global shipping and international trade if it happens. Analysts at Goldman Sachs have suggested a worst-case scenario could lead to the supply of oil through the Strait of Hormuz halving for a month and dropping 10% for another 11 months. This would lead to the price of Brent crude peaking at $110 per barrel, they say. For now, though, traders are content that the risk of Iran actually closing the Strait of Hormuz is limited. "It would be difficult for Iran to fully close the Strait of Hormuz for an extended period due to the position of the US Navy's Fifth Fleet in Bahrain," wrote Helima Croft, head of global commodity strategy at RBC Capital Markets. "I think it's pretty unlikely," adds Simon French, chief economist at Panmure Liberum. That's partly because Iran may come under pressure from its allies to keep the channel open. "China's role in all this is pretty significant, because they can decide whether they want to provide financial support and military support to Iran, and they won't do that if they think that a key provider of their oil is going to be disrupted," says Mr French. Any conflict in the Middle East is bound to affect global energy prices, which has a knock-on effect on bills and petrol prices. In the aftermath of Trump's so-called "Liberation Day" tariffs at the beginning of April, Brent crude prices dropped as low as $60. But the conflict in the Middle East has "unwound all the impact of tariffs on energy markets", says Mr French, pushing prices back to where they were at the end of March. One of the biggest concerns for British households would be if the price of liquefied natural gas (LNG) rose. Although the UK procures most of its LNG from Norway, any blockade in the Strait of Hormuz would push up prices around the world. Craig Lowrey, principal consultant at Cornwall Insights, says household bills are safe from any volatility for now, because the energy regulator, Ofgem, has already announced the energy price cap for July until September. But if this conflict continues past September, household bills could rise. And businesses, which aren't subject to the cap, could be hit more immediately. "That would certainly be a challenge," he says. Consumers could see a more immediate effect in prices at petrol pumps . "There's a lag of three or four weeks as the oil goes through the refining system," says Mr French. If Brent does reach $100, "you're staring down the barrel of 155p, 160p at the pump, which will be quite a shock", he says. Prices at the pump have already begun to creep up. "The average price of a litre of petrol has increased by 1.5p to 133.5p in the last week while diesel has gone up by 2p to 140p," says Simon Williams, head of policy at the RAC. However, he adds prices were a "long way off" those seen in spring 2022 when Russia had just invaded Ukraine. Any sustained rise in oil prices will cause the prices of everyday goods to rise in economies around the world as the cost of manufacturing and transporting them increases, which in turn will push up inflation. In mid-June, Capital Economics suggested that if oil prices were to rise to over $100 a barrel, that could add 1% to inflation in advanced economies, making life difficult for central banks hoping to bring down interest rates. "In the US, the Federal Reserve has already signalled a pause in its easing cycle, citing 'geopolitical risks to price stability'," says Garry White, chief investment commentator at Charles Stanley Group. "In Europe, inflation expectations have ticked upward for the first time in months." Developing economies in Asia and Africa are particularly vulnerable, he adds. "Many rely heavily on Middle Eastern oil and gas imports and lack the financial buffers to absorb sudden price spikes." If inflation rises, the Bank of England could also slow down, or even halt, its programme of interest rate cuts. Mr French predicts that, if prices rise to $110 a barrel, UK inflation could rise above 4% from its current 3.4%. "That becomes a very difficult environment [for the Bank of England] to keep cutting interest rates like they have been doing," he says. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. The aircraft is currently touring Scotland taking in Aberdeen, Dundee and Kirkwall. The US-Israel Iran war has halted almost all traffic in a key waterway and the price Brent crude has surged. Drivers are queuing for hours at petrol stations in Myanmar as the Iran war continues to send shockwaves across the globe. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US Secretary of State Marco Rubio has called on China to prevent Iran from closing the Strait of Hormuz, one of the world's most important shipping routes. His comments came after Iran's state-run Press TV reported that parliament had approved a plan to close the Strait but added that the final decision lies with the Supreme National Security Council. Any disruption to the supply of oil would have profound consequences for the economy. China in particular is the world's largest buyer of Iranian oil and has a close relationship with Tehran. Oil prices rose following the US attack on Iranian nuclear sites, with the price of the benchmark Brent crude reaching its highest level in five months. "I encourage the Chinese government in Beijing to call them [Iran] about that, because they heavily depend on the Straits of Hormuz for their oil," Rubio had said in an interview with Fox News on Sunday. "If they [close the Straits]... it will be economic suicide for them. And we retain options to deal with that, but other countries should be looking at that as well. It would hurt other countries' economies a lot worse than ours." Around 20% of the world's oil passes through the Strait of Hormuz, with major oil and gas producers in the Middle East using the waterway to transport energy from the region. Any attempt to disrupt operations in the Strait could send global oil prices skyrocketing. Oil prices jumped briefly when trading began on Monday, with Brent climbing to $81.40 a barrel. However, it then slid back to around $76.30, below where it had started the day. In a post on his Truth Social platform on Monday, US President Donald Trump said: "EVERYONE, KEEP OIL PRICES DOWN. I'M WATCHING! YOU'RE PLAYING RIGHT INTO THE HANDS OF THE ENEMY. DON'T DO IT!" Saul Kavonic, head of energy research at MST Financial, said: "The US is now positioned with an overwhelming defence posture in the region to be prepared for any Iran counter-attacks. But the risk for oil prices is the situation could escalate severely further." The cost of crude oil affects everything from how much it costs to fill up your car to the price of food at the supermarket. China in particular buys more oil from Iran than any other nation - with its imports from Iran surpassing 1.8 million barrels per day last month, according to data by ship tracking firm Vortexa. Other major Asian economies, including India, Japan and South Korea, also rely heavily on crude oil that passes through the Strait. Energy analyst Vandana Hari has said Iran has "little to gain and too much to lose" from closing the Strait. "Iran risks turning its oil and gas producing neighbours in the Gulf into enemies and invoking the ire of its key market China by disrupting traffic in the Strait," Ms Hari told BBC News. The US joined the conflict between Iran and Israel over the weekend, with President Trump saying Washington had "obliterated" Tehran's key nuclear sites. However, it is not clear how much damage the strikes inflicted, with the UN's nuclear watchdog saying it was unable to assess the damage at the heavily fortified Fordo underground nuclear site. Iran has said there was only minor damage to Fordo. Trump also warned Iran that it would face "far worse" future attacks if the country did not abandon its nuclear programme. On Monday, Beijing said the US strikes had damaged Washington's credibility and called for an immediate ceasefire. China's UN Ambassador Fu Cong said all parties should restrain "the impulse of force... and adding fuel to the fire", according to a state-run CCTV report. In an editorial, Beijing's state newspaper Global Times also said US involvement in Iran "had further complicated and destabilised the Middle East situation" and that it was pushing the conflict to an "uncontrollable state". The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. US and Iranian forces are searching for a missing American crew member after a US warplane was shot down. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Global oil prices jumped after Israel said it had struck Iran in a dramatic escalation of tensions in the Middle East. The price of the benchmark Brent crude rose more than 10%, reaching its highest level since January, before losing some gains. Traders were concerned that a conflict between Iran and Israel could disrupt supplies coming from the energy-rich region. The cost of crude oil affects everything from how much it costs to fill up your car to the price of food at the supermarket. After the initial jump, oil prices eased a little. But Brent crude still ended the day more than 7% higher than Thursday's closing price, trading at $74.23 a barrel. Despite Friday's moves, oil prices are still more than 10% lower than where they were at the same point last year. They are also well below the peaks seen in early 2022 following Russia's invasion of Ukraine, when the price of crude soared well above $100 a barrel. Share prices fell across Asia and Europe on Friday. Japan's Nikkei share index ended the day down 0.9%, while the UK's FTSE 100 index closed 0.39% lower. Stock markets in the US also closed down. The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 1.79% while the S&P 500 was down 0.69%. So-called "safe haven" assets such as gold and the Swiss franc made gains. Some investors see these assets as more reliable investments in times of uncertainty. The gold price hit its highest level for nearly two months, rising 1.2% to $3,423.30 an ounce. Following Israel's attack, Israeli Defence Forces (IDF) said Iran had launched around 100 drones towards the country. Analysts have told the BBC that energy traders will now be watching how much the conflict worsens in the coming days. "It's an explosive situation, albeit one that could be defused quickly as we saw in April and October last year, when Israel and Iran struck each other directly," Vandana Hari of Vanda Insights told the BBC. "It could also spiral out into a bigger war that disrupts Mideast oil supply," she added. Analysts at Capital Economics said that if Iran's oil production and export facilities were targeted, the price of Brent crude could jump to around $80-$100 a barrel. However, they added that such a spike in prices would encourage other oil producers to increase output, ultimately limiting the price rise and the knock-on effect on inflation. A spokesman for UK motoring body the RAC, Rod Dennis, said it was "too soon" to say what impact the latest rise in oil would have on petrol prices. "There are two key factors at play: whether higher wholesale fuel prices are sustained over the coming days and, crucially, the sort of margin retailers decide to take," he said. In an extreme scenario, Iran could disrupt supplies of millions of barrels of oil a day if it targets infrastructure or shipping in the Strait of Hormuz. The strait is one of the world's most important shipping routes, with about a fifth of the world's oil passing through it. At any one time, there are several dozen tankers on their way to the Strait of Hormuz, or leaving it, as major oil and gas producers in the Middle East and their customers transport energy from the region. Bounded to the north by Iran and to the south by Oman and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the Strait of Hormuz connects the Gulf with the Arabian Sea. "What we see now is very initial risk-on reaction. But over the next day or two, the market will need to factor in where this could escalate to," Saul Kavonic, head of energy research at MST Financial said. Additional reporting by Katie Silver The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Authorities in India's southern Kerala state have issued an alert after a ship carrying oil and hazardous cargo leaked and sank off the state's coast in the Arabian Sea. The spill occurred in a Liberian-flagged vessel that capsized near Kochi city on Sunday. The coastal stretch is rich in biodiversity and is also an important tourist destination. All 24 crew members on board the ship have been rescued but some of the ship's 640 containers have reportedly been drifting towards the shore, prompting evacuations in the area. Authorities fear that oil, fuel and other harmful substances that have leaked from the ship and its cargo could endanger the health of residents and marine life. "As the oil slick can reach anywhere along the Kerala coast, an alert has been sounded across the coastal belt," a statement from the chief minister's office said. Authorities have advised residents living near the sea to not touch any containers or the oil that might wash up to the shore, while fishermen have been asked to avoid venturing too close to the sunken ship. On Monday, officials said they had intensified pollution control measures to contain the spill. The Indian Coast Guard has deployed a ship carrying pollution control equipment to the site. It has also sent one of its aircraft which has an oil spill detection system to survey the area. The vessel - MSC ELSA 3 - which was travelling from Vizhinjam port to Kochi, began to tilt dangerously when it was about 38 nautical miles from the coast of Kochi. It capsized into the Arabian Sea in the early hours of Sunday due to flooding in one of its compartments. The Indian Coast Guard said that the ship was carrying 13 containers of hazardous cargo and 12 with calcium carbide - a chemical that reacts with seawater to release a flammable gas. "Additionally, [the] ship had 84.44 metric tonnes of diesel and 367.1 metric tonnes of furnace oil in its tanks," it said. The crew members were rescued by Indian navy personnel after an hours-long operation. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. A new exhibition charts Bombay's passage through the centuries via paintings, photographs and prints. It appears to be the first ship owned by a major European firm to go through the strait since the conflict began. Makers of plastic and glass bottles are struggling to access raw materials as the war squeezes supplies. Yashoda and Krishna, painted by Raja Ravi Varma, beat a record set by an MF Husain work last year. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Peruvian navy vessel has collided with an oil platform in the Amazon River, killing at least two people and leaving one missing. The collision happened in the early hours of Friday morning at the junction of the Napo and Amazon rivers, causing "severe damage", Peru's defence ministry said. Thirty crew members were rescued from the vessel, with specialised diving teams and helicopters deployed as part of the search operation, the statement added. Anglo-French company Perenco, which owns the platform, said that the vessel had collided with the bow chain of the empty storage vessel. The Peruvian defence ministry said it was investigating the cause of the collision. "Peru's Navy deeply regrets the irreparable loss of our crew members," the defence ministry said, adding that it would provide assistance to their loved ones. The ministry said the vessel, called Ucayali, hit the platform while it was navigating near the mouth of the Napo River in northern Peru. In a statement, a spokesperson for Perenco told the BBC that "at approximately 1.30am the Peruvian Navy's BAP Ucayali collided with the bow chain of the AF Manatí, an empty Perenco storage vessel at permanent anchor". The spokesperson said that Perenco had assisted the Peruvian Navy's search and rescue operation, adding that the company "extends its condolences to the families of the sailors lost in the incident". There are hundreds of gas and oil blocks in areas of Peru, Brazil, Colombia and Ecuador covered by the Amazon rainforest. Spills in the region have had a devastating impact on indigenous communities and local wildlife. In 2022, the Peruvian government said that almost 12,000 barrels of oil had leaked into the sea after a tanker was hit by waves linked to a volcanic eruption on Tonga. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An oil well in Surrey that has reportedly produced almost half a million barrels will continue operating through to 2036 after it was granted planning permission. The Brockham Wellsite was given approval by Surrey County Council's planning committee to transport waste water every day to the site in Betchworth, near the Surrey Hills. The oil field had been at risk of running low due to diminishing pressure inside the well, but will continue to operate until the end of its previously agreed lifespan, according to the Local Democracy Reporting Service. Objectors argued oil would be shipped overseas and contribute nothing to the country's energy security. Local resident Gerry Hamilton claimed that "seismic activity" was an identified risk from water reinjection. He cited his claim from a study by the University College of London, which suggested a series of more than 100 small earthquakes in Newdigate from 2018 to 2019 may have been caused by oil extraction from a nearby well. The planning application, submitted by Angus Energy, said the imported waste water was from other oil sites.s An Angus Energy spokesperson said: "Fresh water could not be used as it is important any liquids pumped into the ground are broadly similar to what is already in the ground to avoid earthquakes caused by swelling or clay erosion." During a council meeting, planning officers added: "HGV tankers bring in the waste water and it's then stored before being injected into the oil well." They added that two tankers per day would be used to deliver water to the site during normal operating hours, and lorries were required to avoid Brockham village. Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook, on X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Environmental organisations and the UK authorities are assessing how damaging the collision of an oil tanker and a cargo ship in the North Sea will be for marine species and nearby wildlife populations. It's still too early to tell whether it will have a major impact, and weather conditions in coming days will be a major factor. But a lot will depend on exactly which toxic chemicals have been spilled and how much of them. Maritime operations company, Crowley, which was managing the oil tanker the MV Stena Immaculate, has confirmed that it was carrying 220,000 barrels of jet fuel in 16 containers at the time of the incident. It was not clear on the status of all the containers but Crowley said one had "ruptured" and was leaking fuel into the sea. The contents of the cargo ship, the Solong, which crashed into the tanker have been less clear. Lloyds List, a shipping data company, said on Monday that it was carrying sodium cyanide. But on Tuesday Ernst Russ, owners of the cargo ship said: "We are able to confirm that there are no containers on board ladened with sodium cyanide. "There are four empty containers that have previously contained the hazardous chemical and these containers will continue to be monitored." It remains unclear if the ship was carrying other contents at the time of the crash. Jet fuel is a toxic substance that can be lethal to marine organisms and other animals like seabirds if ingested. The level of toxicity is dependent on the crude oil that it has been refined from. Sodium cyanide, which is used in industry including for metal cleaning, is a also a toxic substance and poisonous for living organisms as it disrupts cell function and leads to oxygen starvation. Sodium cyanide is also highly soluble in water and it can react vigorously to produce the gas hydrogen cyanide - which is also toxic. The confirmation that it was only empty containers on board will allay some concerns about environmental damage and make the clean-up operation easier. The third consideration for authorities will be whether the fuel used to run both ships - the bunker fuel - has also leaked out. Marine fuel is a lot heavier than jet fuel and can remain in the environment for longer. Alex Lukyanov at the University of Reading, UK, said. "Marine diesel can smother habitats and wildlife, affecting their ability to regulate body temperature, potentially resulting in death." "The environmental toll could be severe," he said. Graham Stuart, the local MP for Beverley and Holderness, said on Tuesday that it appears "there is no evidence so far of any of the heavy engine oil leaking from either ship". But he added that this is still possible. The Marine Accident Investigation Branch is overseeing the operation to respond to the incident and clean up any pollution. Melanie Onn, the MP for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes, told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that the Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA) is currently doing an evaluation of the contamination risk and working with the owners of both of the vessels to plan a salvage operation. Prof Alastair Hay, emeritus professor of environmental toxicology at the University of Leeds said: "The priority, I imagine, for the crews trying to contain the damage, will be to extinguish the fires and keep vessels afloat. This will reduce the quantity of chemicals entering the water and the risk for wildlife downstream." The fire that broke out following the crash will have helped to burn off some of the jet fuel but testing kits are being set to the site to confirm there is no residue remaining. Frode Vikebø, research manager at the Institute of Marine Research said that the UK government will be modelling the spread of any contaminants at sea, considering ocean circulation and weather conditions, as part of "standard procedure". In terms of mitigation, Dr Karen Purnell, former director of ITOPF - which advises governments on maritime pollution, said the first approach would be to let the jet fuel "dissipate naturally where possible and avoiding deliberate containment." If any jet fuel did make it to shore, she said: "Flushing the shoreline to remobilise the fuel and perhaps directing it into absorbent booms or mats for later disposal could be an option." But she said the approach would differ depending on the different types of environment, for example whether there were wetlands. The collision happened within an environmentally rich area - both for marine species but also onshore populations of birds who feed on fish and other aquatic organisms. The Humber Estuary is a site of special scientific interest and along with Bempton Cliffs Nature Reserve supports more than half a million birds annually including pink footed geese, puffins, avocets and bar-tailed godwits. Within the wider marine environment at this time of year there are breeding seals and harbour porpoises. Martin Slater, Director of Operations at Yorkshire Wildlife Trust said the time of the year that this spill has occurred is particularly worrying. "Many birds are gathering offshore on the sea ahead of the nesting season and we still have wintering waders – plus migrant birds stopping here – so we're very worried indeed about the threat to these birds," he said. There is also concern for wildlife further south of the incident to which the jet fuel may spread depending on the wind and sea conditions. The area off Lincolnshire's coast is "a unique habitat for fish where seabirds and cetaceans feed" explained Mr Slater. Ecology experts have pointed out that animals do have reactionary mechanisms that mean the noise and smell of the crash will have alerted them to dangers and they could have already vacated the area. It appears to be the first ship owned by a major European firm to go through the strait since the conflict began. Bottles and cans are exchanged for a printed ticket that can be swapped for rewards. Merthyr South Wales Ltd sparked anger after submitting a new - and cheaper - restoration plan. An island colony whose koalas are free of chlamydia could help save the wider population from the deadly disease. Environment Minister Steve Luce says the plan did not have public backing. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
BP has announced it will cut its renewable energy investments and instead focus on increasing oil and gas production. The energy giant revealed the shift in strategy on Wednesday following pressure from some investors unhappy its profits and share price have been lower than its rivals. BP said it would increase its investments in oil and gas by about 20% to $10bn (£7.9bn) a year, while decreasing previously planned funding for renewables by more than $5bn (£3.9bn). The move comes as rivals Shell and Norwegian company Equinor have also scaled back plans to invest in green energy and US President Donald Trump's "drill baby drill" comments have encouraged investment in fossil fuels. Murray Auchincloss, BP's chief executive, said the energy giant had gone "too far, too fast" in the transition away from fossil fuels, and that its faith in green energy was "misplaced". He said BP would be "very selective" in investing in businesses working on the energy transition to renewables going forward, with funding reduced to between $1.5bn and $2bn per year. He said this was part of a strategy "reset" by the company to focus on boosting returns for shareholders. Helge Lund, chair of BP, added that the new direction of the firm had "cash flow growth" at its heart. Shares in the company climbed before Tuesday's announcement but fell shortly after. BP is one of several firms in the energy industry to return focus on oil and gas production, which has seen an increase in profits as prices have increased following lows seen during the Covid pandemic. The firm said it plans to increase its production to between 2.3 million and 2.5 million barrels of oil per day by 2030, with hopes of "major" oil and gas projects starting by the end of 2027. Mr Auchincloss is under pressure to boost profits from some shareholders, including the influential activist group Elliot Management, which took a near £4bn stake in the £70bn company to push for more investment in oil and gas. In 2024, BP's net income fell to $8.9bn (£7.2bn), down from $13.8bn the previous year. However, some other shareholders, as well as environmental groups have voiced concerns over switching focus back to fossil fuel production. Last week, a group of 48 investors called on the company to allow them a vote on any potential plans to move away from commitments to renewables. The environmental group Greenpeace UK said the latest move was "proof that fossil fuel companies can't or won't be part of climate crisis solutions". Alexander Kirk from Global Witness added BP "cannot be trusted to deliver the clean energy transition", adding that it was "focusing on short-term profits to shareholders while energy prices are high, with the rest of the world picking up the tab from its climate-wrecking products". Global Witness drove a lorry around central London with messages criticising BP's decision. Sir Ian Cheshire, who has held many executive roles at companies such as B&Q owner Kingfisher and Barclays bank, questioned whether BP's latest move would work. "I do wonder whether this sort of decision will look right in 10 years," he told the BBC's Today programme. "The climate change issue has not gone away, the science hasn't changed," he said. Challenged on the reduced commitment to investing in renewable energy, Louise Kingham, BP's senior vice president for Europe and the UK, said none of the changes announced on Tuesday would alter the UK's green energy plans, which include three wind farms and carbon capture projects. She said the shift to renewable energy sources had slowed but that BP's ambition had "not changed" to become a net-zero company. According to the International Energy Agency, no new fossil fuel projects are compatible with limiting global warming to 1.5C compared to pre-industrial levels, "We just have to do this transition more smartly and more efficiently and try to get those returns for our owners because they are helping us to do that. If we don't generate the returns, we can't invest and do more," Ms Kingham told the Scottish Affairs committee of MPs. "It's going to take everybody to move in concert to make this happen. It's not just the decision of one company and what it chooses to do." The decrease in renewables will cover biogas, biofuels and electric vehicle charging projects, while BP will look to "capital-light partnerships" in other green energy such as wind and solar. BP has already placed its offshore wind business in a joint venture with Japanese company Jera and is looking to find a partner to do the same with its solar business. Five years ago, BP set some of the most ambitious targets among large oil companies to cut production of oil and gas by 40% by 2030, while significantly ramping up investment in renewables. But in 2023, the company lowered this oil and gas reduction target to 25%. In the five years since former chief executive Bernard Looney first unveiled his strategy, shareholders have received total returns including dividends of 36%. In contrast, shareholders in rivals Shell and Exxon have seen returns of 82% and 160% respectively. BP's under performance has prompted speculation that it may be a takeover target or may consider moving its main stock market listing to the US where oil and gas companies command higher valuations. Sign up for our Future Earth newsletter to get exclusive insight on the latest climate and environment news from the BBC's Climate Editor Justin Rowlatt, delivered to your inbox every week. Outside the UK? Sign up to our international newsletter here. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Greenpeace has said that a lawsuit brought by an energy company over the Dakota Access Pipeline could wipe it out. The Texas-based company, Energy Transfer, alleges protest tactics by Greenpeace delayed the project, which began transporting oil in 2017 after President Donald Trump backed in his first term. Protests against the pipeline near the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation drew thousands, but Greenpeace says it did not lead them and the lawsuit threatens free speech. The organisation "could face financial ruin, ending over 50 years of environmental activism" if it loses, it also says. The trial in North Dakota is expected to last five weeks, beginning with jury selection on Monday. The lawsuit, filed in state court, accuses Greenpeace of an "unlawful and violent scheme to cause financial harm to Energy Transfer, physical harm to its employees and infrastructure, and to disrupt and prevent Energy Transfer's construction of the Dakota Access Pipeline". Greenpeace says it could be forced into bankruptcy if it is ordered to pay the approximate $300m (£237m)  in claimed damages. Energy Transfer brought a similar federal lawsuit in 2017,  arguing protesters had violated the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (Rico) - an allegation more often made against organised crime groups. A judge dismissed the case. But this trial is taking place in conservative North Dakota. The state's former governor, Doug Burgum, is currently leading the federal agency on public lands for the Trump administration, as the secretary for the Department of Interior. Greenpeace has expressed concern that it cannot get a fair hearing in the oil-rich area. The pipeline's construction gained international attention during Trump's first term as Native American groups set up an encampment trying to block it from passing near Standing Rock. The protests started in April 2016, and ended in February 2017, when the National Guard and police cleared the protest site. At the peak, over 10,000 protesters were on site. The group included more than 200 separate Native American tribes, hundreds of US military veterans, actors and political leaders -  including the current health secretary, Robert F Kennedy, Jr. Hundreds were arrested, and authorities were accused of using excessive force, including dousing crowds with pepper spray and freezing water as well as firing sound cannons, bean-bag rounds and rubber bullets. Lawyers for Greenpeace argue that it was not the leader of the protest group, but helped support "nonviolent, direct-action training" to protesters. The suit names Greenpeace USA, as well as its Washington DC-based funding arm Greenpeace Fund Inc and its Amsterdam-based parent group Greenpeace International. Greenpeace has sued Energy Transfer (ET) in Dutch court, claiming that the company is attempting to unfairly use the legal system to silence critics. The lawsuit, filed earlier this month, seeks to recover "all damages and costs it has suffered as a result of ET's back-to-back, meritless lawsuits". Oil giant Shell had to review its assessment after a judge ruled the Jackdaw field was permitted unlawfully. The group abseiled off the bridge in a demonstration against a tanker carrying fracked gas. Protesters said they were attempting to block the arrival of a tanker in a protest against Ineos. The activists hid the waxwork under a blanket before taking it out through an emergency exit, reports say. Five people are arrested on suspicion of criminal damage and conspiracy to cause criminal damage, police say. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A BBC investigation has uncovered allegations that energy giant Shell has ignored repeated warnings that a controversial clean-up operation of oil-polluted areas of southern Nigeria has been beset by problems and corruption. The multinational headquartered in London, along with the Nigerian government, has repeatedly stated that work to clean up oil-contaminated sites of Ogoniland, which kicked off around eight years ago, is going well. But the BBC has discovered evidence that they were warned repeatedly over several years that the scheme, set up by the government and funded by various oil firms to the tune of $1bn (£805m), has been suffering from a string of issues. One close observer has described the clean-up project as a "con" and a "scam" that has wasted money and left the people of Ogonliland, which lies in the Niger Delta, continuing to live with the devastating impact of oil pollution - 13 years after a ground-breaking UN report lifted the lid on the seriousness of their situation. Shell's Nigerian subsidiary told the BBC: "The operating environment in the Niger Delta remains challenging because of the huge scale of illegal activities such as oil theft. "When spills do happen from our facilities we clean up and remediate, regardless of the cause. If it's an operational spill, we also compensate people and communities." The allegations come as a civil trial is expected to begin on Thursday at the High Court in London, where lawyers representing two Ogoniland communities of around 50,000 inhabitants will say Shell must take responsibility for oil pollution that occurred between 1989 and 2020, allegedly from its infrastructure. The communities say the spills have left them without clean water, unable to farm and fish, and created serious risks to public health. Shell, which has been pushing to sell its assets in the West African country to focus on offshore drilling and onshore gas, has indicated it will defend the claims. It denies wrongdoing and says spills in the region have been caused by sabotage, theft and illegal refining for which the company says it is not liable. The BBC has visited the affected areas in the Niger Delta, where Shell, the largest private oil and gas company in the country, discovered the existence of crude oil 68 years ago. The UN says at least 13 million barrels - or 1.5 million tonnes - of crude oil have been spilled since 1958 in at least 7,000 incidents in the Niger Delta region. The spills have left many families worried for their health and livelihoods. Grace Audi, 37, lives with her partner and two-year-old in Ogale in Rivers state, where there have been at least 40 oil spills from Shell's infrastructure, according to Leigh Day, the UK-law firm representing the communities in this case. Her family and neighbours only have access to a contaminated borehole, forcing them to buy clean water to use for drinking, cooking, washing and, once a day, flushing, at a cost of 4,500 Nigerian naira ($3, £2.40) - in an area where the average daily wage is less than $8. It is a familiar story to many in Niger Delta's Rivers state. Paulina Agbekpekpe told the BBC that lush greenery once surrounded thriving mangroves of her community in Bodo - which is not one of those going to court on Thursday. She said the rivers and ponds used to brim with all kinds of animals and fish, particularly periwinkle. "The place was greener, not only mangroves, but all by the shoreline - there were pawpaw trees, palm trees and more. But during the spills, the destruction has polluted everywhere," the 50-year-old mother of six said. Her family had for generations survived on fishing, until a devastating spill 10 years ago. "Most of the children - from the drinking water - have got diseases. Many have died. I've lost eight kids. My husband is sick. "Because our livelihoods have been taken away, people in Bodo are hungry and suffering." In 2011, the UN's Environment Programme (UNEP) published a major study into the impact of pollution on the oil-rich area. It found members of one community in Ogoniland were drinking water contaminated with a known carcinogen at levels more than 900 times above the World Health Organization (WHO) guideline. The same chemical, benzene, was detected in all their air samples. It also found that sites that Shell's Nigerian subsidiary, the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria (SPDC), claimed to have remediated, were still polluted and the techniques they used did not reach regulatory requirements. The report concluded that a comprehensive clean-up of the area would take 25-30 years - and it led to the formation of the Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (Hyprep). This was initially established by the Nigerian government in 2012, but no clean-up was started - until it was relaunched by a new government in December 2016. Hyprep was part-funded by oil companies including the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) and Shell, which gave $270m. However, the BBC has seen internal documents that suggest representatives of Shell and of the Nigerian government were warned numerous times of the agency's alleged fraudulent practices. One person aware of the project spoke to the BBC about their concerns - and asked to remain anonymous out of a fear of reprisals. "It's common knowledge that really what we're doing is a scam. Most of it is to fool the Ogoni people," the whistleblower said. "It's a con perpetuated so that more money can be put into the pot and end up in the pockets of politicians and other people in power." The allegations about failings at Hyprep include: In the minutes of one meeting in 2023, attended by representatives from Shell's Nigerian subsidiary, the UNEP and Hyprep, it was pointed out that "incompetent" contractors were "being engaged again" and that they should "not be allowed to further degrade the environment". In a separate leaked report seen by the BBC from the same year, it was pointed out that laboratory results were "regularly reported with deviations". In 2022, the UN wrote to the Nigeria's environment ministry, warning that if nothing changed, the "extremely poor standards" of the clean-up would continue. The BBC has asked Hyprep and the Nigerian government to comment on the allegations but has received no response. But our investigation has revealed evidence that Shell was aware of the problems. In a meeting with the British high commissioner to Nigeria in January last year, minutes of which were obtained under the Freedom of Information Act, Shell representatives acknowledged the "institutional challenges" of the clean-up agency and the chance of the refusal of "future funding" towards it. Shell told the BBC: "Hyprep is an agency established and overseen by the federal government of Nigeria, with its governing council largely made up of senior ministers and government officials, along with five representatives of communities and NGOs and a single SPDC representative." This is not the only remediation project in the Niger Delta that is alleged to have been botched. In 2015, Shell agreed to a £55m settlement for a clean-up after two catastrophic spills in 2008 from its infrastructure in the area Bodo. The company said the clean-up, conducted by the Bodo Mediation Initiative (BMI), which is meant to serve as a mediator between oil companies, including Shell, and the Bodo community (and is part-funded by the oil giant and Nigerian regulators) has been certified as 98% complete. However, the BBC visited sites within the area and found crude oil oozing from the soil and floating on waters. Shell and the BMI insist any occurrences of oil spills in the region are because of theft - known in the industry as "oil bunkering". "There is a plan to call back the contractors to clean those areas to specification, to standard," Boniface Dumpe, a director at the BMI, told the BBC. "It is the responsibility of all stakeholders, Shell, yes, to take care of their facilities, to ensure that re-oiling does not come from their facilities. "But for the areas that have been cleaned. I would think that some responsibility is also for the community to ensure that some illegal activities does not also cause re-pollution." Shell said it takes active measures to prevent oil spills caused by oil bunkering. The company said: "We take extensive steps to prevent this activity and the spills it causes including aerial surveillance, removing illegal connections on pipelines, and by building steel cages to protect wellheads." The alleged failings in the oil clean-up come as Shell prepares to sell its Nigerian subsidiary, the SPDC, to Renaissance Africa, a consortium of local and international companies. Some locals have accused the oil giant of "running away" from properly cleaning up the land and waters it is alleged to have polluted. They also fear Shell may still profit from the area by simply trading the oil extracted from the region in future. "The operations of whichever oil operator takes over the relevant pipelines will have an enormous impact on their day-to-day life," Joe Snape, a lawyer at Leigh Day, told the BBC. "There's incredibly little detail about what these deals will lead to. "It is unclear how Renaissance [Africa] will act going forward. At least with Shell we have means of holding them to account." Mineral products, like petroleum oil and gas, account for 90% of exports from Nigeria, most of which comes from the Niger Delta region. Locals, whose main source of livelihood has been agriculture and fishing, told the BBC that since the discovery of oil, or what some refer to as "black gold", their home had been pumped for profit - by major oil companies, by oil thieves and by corrupt politicians. They say they have seen no benefit, only suffering - like Patience Ogboe who blames recent oil spills in Rivers state for her failing crops. "Formerly if I harvest I can eat some with my family and even sell some… but for the past few years I could not get anything. It's really bad," the 42-year-old the BBC. Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica Cameroon's President Paul Biya, 93, won his eighth successive term last year in a disputed election. The fuel cost is nearly double what the government budgeted for putting pressure on stretched finances. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. The Uganda Law Society criticises the deportation, saying it was illegal and "dehumanising". Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Biden administration has imposed some of its toughest sanctions yet on Russia, in a move designed to hit Moscow's energy revenue that is fuelling its war in Ukraine. The measures target more than 200 entities and individuals ranging from traders and officials to insurance companies, as well as hundreds of oil tankers. In a first since Moscow's all-out invasion of Ukraine, the UK will join the US in directly sanctioning energy companies Gazprom Neft and Surgutneftegas. "Taking on Russian oil companies will drain Russia's war chest – and every ruble we take from Putin's hands helps save Ukrainian lives," said Foreign Secretary David Lammy. Some of the measures announced by the US Treasury on Friday will be put into law, meaning the incoming Trump administration will need to involve Congress if it wants to lift them. Washington is also moving to severely limit who can legally purchase Russian energy, and going after what it called Moscow's "shadow fleet" of vessels that ship oil around the world. US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said the actions were "ratcheting up the sanctions risk associated with Russia's oil trade, including shipping and financial facilitation in support of Russia's oil exports." President Joe Biden said Russian leader Vladimir Putin was in "tough shape", adding that "it's really important that he not have any breathing room to continue to do the god-awful things he continues to do." "It is probable that gas prices [in the United States] could increase as much as three or four cents a gallon," said the president. But, he added, the measures were likely to "have profound effect on the growth of the Russian economy". Ukraine's president, Volodymyr Zelensky, thanked the US for what he called its "bipartisan support". Since the beginning of the war in Ukraine, a price cap on oil has been among the key measures designed to curb Russia's energy exports. But as Olga Khakova from the Atlantic Council's Global Energy Centre explained, its effectiveness was "diluted" because it was also trying to avoid the volume of Russian oil in the market dropping. This was due to concerns about the impact reduced supply would have on the global economy. But experts said the oil market was now in a healthier position. "US oil production (and exports) are at record levels and rising, and therefore the price impact of taking Russian oil off the market, the objective of today's sanctions, will be attenuated," said Daniel Fried, a distinguished fellow at the Atlantic Council. "The US government has gone after the Russian oil sector in a big way, intending to deal what may turn out to be a body blow," Fried added. John Herbst, a former US ambassador to Ukraine, said while the steps were "excellent", their implementation would be critical. "Which means that it is the Trump administration that will determine if these measures do in fact put pressure on the Russian economy," he said. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. A former wildlife producer said travelling to a war zone has changed his life. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Researchers from the University College London (UCL) have claimed a series of more than 100 small earthquakes in Surrey could have been triggered by oil drilling. The tremors were recorded between April 2018 and early 2019 near Newdigate, with oil drilling taking place at Horse Hill about five to 10km (three to six miles) away. Drilling stopped at the site in October 2024, after planning permission was quashed following a legal case by campaigner Sarah Finch. UKOG, the company behind the drilling, said seismologists from the British Geological Survey (BGS) were satisfied the earthquakes were caused by a fault in the earth. The tremors measured between 1.34 and 3.18 magnitude. The UCL study, published on Friday in the Geological Magazine, ran more than 1,000,000 simulations, estimating the timing of the events and volume of oil extraction, finding a rough match between the two. Lead author Dr Matthew Fox said: "Our study suggests there is a link between the earthquakes and oil extraction at Horse Hill but we cannot rule out that this link is a coincidence. "More work needs to be done to understand if this is cause and effect. However, our findings indicate it is plausible that oil extraction triggered the earthquakes." The UCL team claimed extracting oil changes fluid pressure in rock, which can cause it to move. A spokesman for UKOG said: "This is an incident that was answered and dealt with many years ago when the BGS seismologists were satisfied it was a natural event associated with movement on a deeper unassociated fault many kilometres deeper and distant from the site. "Our focus is now on renewable energy and the storage of hydrogen in salt caverns in Dorset and East Yorkshire, fully in step with the government's Clean Power 2030 target." Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook, on X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The quake struck between the islands of Manado and Ternate. Tsunami warnings have now been lifted. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two Russian oil tankers have been badly damaged in the Black Sea, causing an oil spill, authorities in Russia have said. Footage released by Russia's Southern Transport Prosecutor's Office showed the bow of one tanker completely broken off, with streaks of oil visible in the water. Both tankers are believed to have drifted before running aground offshore. At least one crew member was reportedly killed. The incident took place in the Kerch Strait, which separates Russia from Crimea - the Ukrainian peninsula illegally annexed by Moscow in 2014. A rescue operation involving tugboats, helicopters and more than 50 personnel saw 13 crew members rescued from one tanker, before being suspended due to bad weather. Fourteen crew members who had been stranded aboard a second tanker were also rescued, the Russian emergencies ministry said on Monday. President Vladimir Putin has ordered a working group to be set up to deal with the incident, headed by Deputy Prime Minister Vitaly Savelyev - and authorities are investigating for criminal negligence. Michelle Bockmann, an analyst at shipping industry journal Lloyd's List, told the BBC the two vessels are owned by the company Volgatanker and were relatively small. They had been carrying around 4,300 dead weight tonnes of oil each, according to Russian officials quoted by Tass news agency. A tanker used for trading Russian crude oil internationally generally has a much larger carrying capacity of around 120,000 dead weight tonnes, Bockmann said, meaning it is likely these tankers were used for transporting oil through Russia's rivers or in coastal waters. The Kerch Strait is a key route for exports of Russian grain and it is also used for exports of crude oil, fuel oil and liquefied natural gas. In 2007, another oil tanker - Volgoneft-139 - split in half during a storm while anchored off the Kerch Strait, spilling more than 1,000 tonnes of oil. Russian oil imports have been heavily sanctioned by allies of Ukraine since the Kremlin ordered the full-scale invasion of the country in February 2022. In recent years, Russia has been accused of using a so-called ghost fleet of tankers, which are often poorly maintained and lack proper insurance, to move oil and circumvent sanctions - though Bockmann said it did not appear the tankers involved in Sunday's incident were part of that fleet. Additional reporting by Joshua Cheetham Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. Russian authorities say a technical malfunction caused the An-26 to crash into a cliff. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The environmental group Greenpeace has reached an out-of-court settlement with Shell after protesters twice boarded one of its North Sea installations. The charity has agreed to pay £300,000 to the RNLI after campaigners climbed onto the floating production vessel while it was being transported to the Penguins field north east of Shetland last year. The protesters have also agreed not to return to four Shell platforms. Greenpeace has accused Shell of using "bullying tactics" against peaceful protest while the oil giant says the stunt posed a serious risk to life. Greenpeace activists boarded the White Marlin ship north of the Canary Islands in the Atlantic in January 2023 and occupied it for 13 days. Activists campaigning against fossil fuels and oil drilling used inflatable boats to reach the Shell-contracted ship, before hoisting themselves onto it with ropes. Following the settlement, Greenpeace said it would continue to campaign against Shell, including in the North Sea. Areeba Hamid, co-executive director at Greenpeace UK, said: "Shell thought suing us for millions over a peaceful protest would intimidate us, but this case became a PR millstone tied around its neck. "The public backlash against its bullying tactics made it back down and settle out of court." She added: "This settlement shows that people power works. Thousands of ordinary people across the country backed our fight against Shell and their support means we stay independent and can keep holding Big Oil to account. "We've ensured not a penny of our supporters' money will go to Shell and all funds raised will be used to continue campaigning against the fossil fuel industry and other big polluters." A Shell spokesperson said: "Shell is pleased that the dispute has been settled and that a payment in lieu of the costs it incurred can benefit a charity working on safety at sea. "For Shell, the right to protest is fundamental and has never been at issue. Instead, this case was about an illegal boarding by protesters which a High Court judge described as "putting their lives and, indirectly, the lives of the crew at risk". "He was also clear that Greenpeace could still protest from a safe distance and their human rights were not infringed." Shell was originally suing Greenpeace for £1.7m in damages. Police were called to the incident which involved a silver Toyota Avensis at Bridge End at about 20:50 on Thursday. Tammy Hine says she wanted to live somewhere remote and have one last adventure before turning 50. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Talk of potential buyers for the Grangemouth refinery has been a distraction with no credible offers having come forward, bosses at Petroineos have said. The refinery is to close next year with the loss of around 400 jobs, with plans to convert the site into a fuel import terminal. A number of expressions of interest have been made since the announcement. But the firm’s regional head of legal and external affairs Iain Hardie said none of them could pass "the most basic financial or operational due diligence" tests. Both the Scottish and UK governments, as well as trade unions, have hit out at the decision to close the facility. They have repeatedly urged Petroineos - a joint venture between Ineos and PetroChina - to pause the decision to allow for a transition. Mr Hardie said the refinery was "not commercially viable" and was losing $500,000 (£400,000) a day - meaning the pool of realistic investors was "small if not non-existent". He also said talk of a buyout had "definitely been a distraction" and that staff recognised the "financial and operational challenges" the business faces. Mr Hardie said: "We’ve had a number of expressions of interest but unfortunately none of those have made it through the most basic financial or operational due diligence. "As a consequence we don’t have any credible expressions of interest, let alone viable bids, for the Grangemouth refinery." Grangemouth is Scotland's only refinery and accounts for about 14% of the UK's overall refining capacity. The Scottish and UK governments have said they have a joint plan to secure a long-term future for the site. Petroineos confirmed on 12 September that it was going to close the refinery - with Scotland's public finance minister, Ivan McKee, telling the BBC the next day that he believed there "absolutely is a potential buyer". He also said that the local MSP Michelle Thomson was "working closely with them at the moment". There has been speculation about other interested parties since then - most recently last week, when Dubai firm Trading Stack DMCC issued a press release saying it was looking to acquire the Grangemouth refinery. Mr Hardie said that Petroineos would "of course" consider any genuine bids, but he did not believe it was "credible financially or operationally" to keep the refinery open. "This is a refinery that is currently losing half a million dollars a day", he said. "The shareholders have invested over $1bn and have incurred simple cash losses of over $800m. "This is an asset which is not commercially viable so the universe of potential investors is small if not non-existent". Mr Hardie said workers at the refinery were committed to managing the end of its operations safely, adding: "The work that the Grangemouth workforce have provided over the last hundred years is without question - but this is the energy transition in action. "It can come as no surprise that a 100-year-old refinery will struggle in an environment where demand for its product is falling. "We have been crystal clear from day one why we are having to make these really difficult decisions. "Our focus is on getting the terminal ready and our focus is on Project Willow and making sure we create a platform for longer-term manufacturing to occur in the Grangemouth cluster." Workers rallied outside Holyrood on Thursday to demand the refinery remains open. Sharon Graham from the Unite union said Grangemouth could be sustainable as a site producing aviation fuel, calling on the Scottish and UK governments to help change the direction. She also said the refinery could still have a bright future which would see new investors come forward. Ms Graham wrote to UK Energy Secretary Ed Miliband last week saying that the refinery could be converted to produce sustainable aviation fuel "relatively easily", something Petroineos rejects. Later in the week, she told MSPs the company's books gave a "distorted picture" of the financial situation at the plant, which the firm also rejected. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Petrol production at Nigerian business tycoon Aliko Dangote’s $20bn (£15.5bn) state-of-the-art oil refinery ought to be some of the best business news Nigeria has had in years. But many Nigerians will judge its success on two key questions - firstly: "Will I get cheaper petrol?" Sorry, but probably no - unless the international price of crude drops. And secondly: "Will I still have to spend hours watching my hair turn grey in a hypertension-inducing fuel queue?" Hopefully those days are gone but it might partly depend on the behaviour of what Mr Dangote calls "the oil mafia". For much of the time since oil was first discovered in Nigeria in 1956, the downstream sector, which includes the stage when crude is refined into petrol and other products, has been a cesspit of shady deals with successive governments heavily involved. It has always been impossible to follow the money, but you know there is something dreadfully wrong when the headline "Nigeria’s state-owned oil firm fails to pay $16bn in oil revenues", pops up on your news feed, as it did in 2016. It is only in the last five years that the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) has been publishing accounts. The Africa head at the Eurasia Group think-tank, Amaka Anku, hails the Dangote refinery, in which the NNPC has a 7% stake, as "a very significant moment" for the West African state. "What you had in the downstream sector was an inefficient, corrupt monopoly," she says. "What the local refinery allows you to do is have a truly competitive downstream sector with multiple players who will be more efficient, profit making and they’ll pay taxes." To put it bluntly, the population of this oil-rich nation has been conned on a colossal scale for many years. Oil revenue accounts for nearly 90% of Nigeria’s export earnings but a relatively small number of business people and politicians have gorged themselves on the oil wealth. Aspects of the business model have been baffling, including that of Nigeria’s four previously existing oil refineries. Built in the 1960s, 70s and 80s, they have fallen into disrepair. Last year Nigeria’s parliament reported that over the previous decade the state had spent a staggering $25bn trying and failing to fix the moribund facilities. So Africa’s largest oil producer has been exporting its crude which is then refined abroad, much to the delight of some well-connected traders. It would be like a bakery with a broken oven. But rather than fix it, the owner sends balls of dough to another firm that shoves them in a working oven and sells the loaves back to the baker. The NNPC swaps Nigeria’s crude oil for the refined products, including petrol, which are shipped back home. Exactly how much money changes hands and who benefits from these "oil swaps" is just one of the unknowns in these deals. "No-one has been able to nail down who exactly has benefited. It’s almost like a beer parlour gossip about who is getting what," says Toyin Akinosho of the Africa Oil+Gas Report. The NNPC began subsidising the price of petrol in the 1970s to cushion the blow when global prices soared. Every year it clawed this money back by depositing lower royalty payments - the money it received for every barrel pumped out of the ground - with the Nigerian treasury. In 2022 the subsidy cost the government $10bn, more than 40% of the total money it collected in taxes. On his second day in office Nigeria’s Vice-President Kashim Shettima referred to "the fuel subsidy scam" being "an albatross around the neck of the economy". Nigerian oil expert Kelvin Emmanuel says in 2019 the country’s official petrol consumption "jumped by 284% to 70m litres per day without empirical evidence to justify such a sharp increase in demand". Parliament has previously reported that - at least on paper - importers were being paid to bring in far more petrol than the country consumed. There was a lot of money to be made exporting some of the subsidised petrol to neighbouring countries where prices were far higher. The NNPC earned billions of dollars a year from the crude oil production. But for many years, under previous governments, some of its profits never reached the treasury as it was accused by state governors and federal lawmakers of including these inflated subsidy costs on its balance sheet. The NNPC did not respond to a request for an interview or a response to these allegations but in June denied it had ever "inflated its subsidy claims with the federal government". It may have been the main source of revenue for successive governments but for decades, until 2020, the board did not disclose its audited accounts. Its press release from March this year promised more transparency and accountability. After coming to power in May 2023, President Bola Tinubu said the subsidy was unsustainable and suddenly cut it - pump prices immediately tripled. He also stopped the policy of artificially propping up the value of the local currency, the naira, and let market forces determine its value. When he took over, the exchange rate was 460 naira to the US dollar. In November 2024 it was over 1,600. The triple shock of higher fuel prices, sporadic shortages of supply and a depreciating currency has been a tough body blow for people across the country, many of whom are forced to run generators to keep the lights on and phones charged. "Beyond the financial burden, the uncertainty and stress of constantly dealing with fuel shortages have added a layer of anxiety to everyday tasks," is how one Lagos resident summed it up. "I feel like I’m always navigating through crisis mode. It’s exhausting." As the naira plunged and pump prices increased several times, the government, aware of the potential danger of protests, continued to pipette some medicine to the masses. In a move which could be likened to swallowing half a paracetamol for acute appendicitis, the government made sure people were paying slightly less than the market rate for a litre of petrol. In other words, the NNPC was selling at a loss and the subsidy was still alive. But with two recent increases in October, Nigerians are now paying market prices for fuel for the first time in three decades. In the main city Lagos it went up from 858 naira ($0.52) to 1,025 naira per litre. One of the major factors in Nigeria’s economic crisis has been a limited supply of foreign currency. The country does not export enough products and services to bring in the dollars. But lots of people, including fuel traders, have been chasing the same limited supply of foreign currency, which leads to the naira losing even more value. The good news is that Mr Dangote’s facility is going to buy crude and sell refined fuels in Nigeria in the local currency, which will leave more dollars available for everyone else. The bad news for those hoping this will mean cheaper fuel is that the price Mr Dangote pays for a barrel of local crude will still be the naira equivalent of the international cost in dollars. So if the price of crude goes up on the world market, Nigerians will still be forced to fork out more naira. Refining locally will mean less freight costs but that’s a relatively small saving. It is hoped that the arrival of Mr Dangote’s oil refinery will help bring a measure of transparency to the sector. He knew he would be upsetting some of those who benefit from the murky status quo when the $20bn project began. But, he says, he underestimated the challenge. "I knew there would be a fight. But I didn’t know that the mafia in oil, they are stronger than the mafia in drugs," Mr Dangote told an investment conference in June. "They don’t want the trade to stop. It’s a cartel. Dangote comes along and he’s going to disrupt them entirely. Their business is at risk,” says Mr Emmanuel, the oil expert. The fact that there have been some public disagreements with the regulator has only fuelled that suspicion. Mr Dangote’s refinery near Lagos is thirsty, with a capacity of 650,000 barrels of crude a day. You would have thought being located in Nigeria would make supply easy but then up pops this headline: "Nigeria’s Dangote buys Brazilian crude". It follows a row over supply and pricing. The regulatory authority has complained about Mr Dangote’s negotiating tactics. Nigeria’s crude oil is low in sulphur and, as one of the most prized in the world, fetches a higher price than many of its competitors. When discussions over price began, Farouk Ahmed, the chief executive of the Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA), accused Mr Dangote of "wanting a Lamborghini for the price of a Toyota". Mr Dangote has complained of not being allocated as much crude as earlier agreed but even when the price issue is resolved, he will still need to import some crude. “NNPC doesn’t have enough crude for Dangote. Despite all this instruction to give ample supply of crude to the refinery, NNPC can’t supply Dangote with more than 300,000 barrels per day," says Mr Akinosho of the Africa Oil+Gas Report. He says this is partly because the NNPC has pre-sold millions of barrels of oil for loans. In August 2023 it secured a $3bn loan from the Afreximbank financial institution. In return it is due to supply 164 million barrels of crude. In September the NNPC admitted it was significantly in debt. It was reported to be owing its suppliers around $6bn for fuel brought into the country. Nigeria’s oil production has plummeted in recent years from around 2.1 million barrels per day in 2018 to around 1.3 million barrels per day in 2023. The NNPC has been stressing oil theft as the number one reason why production has dropped. It says in just one week - from 28 September to 4 October - there were 161 incidents of oil theft across the Niger Delta and 45 illegal refineries were "discovered". But Ms Anku believes that "the theft problem is overrated by the NNPC and the oil sector". "It’s a convenient excuse,” she adds. She points to other contributing factors causing the drop in production, including international oil companies selling their on-shore oil fields - some of which may no longer be viable having pumped oil for 60 years. The 66-year-old Dangote, who is listed by the Bloomberg Billionaires Index as the second wealthiest person in Africa, made his fortune in cement and sugar. He has always denied the suggestion that his empire benefitted from links to politicians in power who helped ensure he had a monopoly. Today there are those who are critical of Mr Dangote’s tactics and amid tension with the regulatory authorities, the same accusation has resurfaced when it comes to the supply of fuel in Nigeria. "Mr Dangote asked me to stop issuing licences for importation and that everyone should buy from him. To which I said 'No' because it’s not good for the market. We have energy security interests," says Mr Ahmed of the regulatory authority. Mr Dangote has not commented on the accusation but has said it makes business sense for the traders to buy from his refinery rather than from outside. A feud between the regulator and Mr Dangote over supplies and pricing has rumbled on and morphed into another row with local fuel traders refusing to buy from the new refinery. The mud slinging has also included allegations that some traders have been buying up substandard fuel from Russia which is then blended with other products before being shipped into Nigeria. But not everyone is worried or surprised by the disagreements. Ms Anku points to lessons learnt from US businessmen back in the 19th Century. "The JP Morgans and the Stanfords – they didn’t have it easy either. That’s why they had to go and get government support and subsidies to build their railways and so on. "I see the drama as a very normal process as you’re changing the structure of the economy. There are losers, they lash out. There’s no chance they’ll stop the refinery from working or selling its products to the Nigerian markets… in my view." The modern, local refinery has also led to a debate over the quality of fuel on the market. It is an important issue given the vast number of generators belching out fumes across Nigeria as a result of the woeful power supply. "Every day I wake up to the smell of what I’m sure [could] kill me. It’s because of the quality of the diesel," says Mr Akinosho. He sees Mr Dangote’s refinery as a real opportunity for higher quality petroleum products in Nigeria which would be better for both car engines and people’s lungs. But right now, Nigerians being hit hard in the pocket may find it difficult to be optimistic. Arguments between officials at the Dangote refinery, the oil marketers and the regulators are batted back and forth in the media. All sides have been accused of hiding some facts and figures which leaves people guessing what is going on inside this still somewhat opaque industry. "Everyone is a villain. There are no heroes here," concludes Mr Akinosho. Go to BBCAfrica.com for more news from the African continent. Follow us on Twitter @BBCAfrica, on Facebook at BBC Africa or on Instagram at bbcafrica Cameroon's President Paul Biya, 93, won his eighth successive term last year in a disputed election. The fuel cost is nearly double what the government budgeted for putting pressure on stretched finances. The Uganda Law Society criticises the deportation, saying it was illegal and "dehumanising". Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Capt Ibrahim Traoré, who seized power in 2023, says democratic rule would not work for his country. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A Shropshire dental practice has had to close due to the "terrible smell" caused by a local kerosene leak. Butler and Finnegan, in Bishop's Castle, said it had lost five days of work and was only taking on emergency patients because the oil began seeping into its cellar. The leak happened about a week ago, when heating oil began flowing under a house, the dental practice, and into street drains. On Thursday, Shropshire Council said the leak came from a heating oil tank at a property uphill from those affected and it had been stopped. However on Friday, it said it was possible the leak was coming from a second source, even higher up. "Further work is being done today to try to rule this in or out," a spokesperson said. The authority added that it had no legal responsibility over the issue, and that homeowners were given advice to contact their insurance companies and arrange visits from specialist contractors to find the source. "We have been getting oil leaking into the cellar through the drainage pipe, and also through the walls," said Adam Butler from the practice. "Even if the leak stops, we’ve still got a terrible smell," Mr Butler said. "It's hard on our patients but it's stressful for us, we’re losing a week’s revenue." A specialist team is working on eliminating the smell by putting down materials to absorb the oil and using vapour extraction machines. They said the vapours were on the borderline of what would be considered safe in the short term. Mr Butler hopes the practice will reopen on Monday, but the decision will need to be made on Friday afternoon. "We can’t wait until Monday morning, because if we’re going to have to cancel patients we need to give them warning, otherwise it's even more of an inconvenience," he said. Councillor Ruth Houghton expressed concerns that the oil could have entered nearby water courses, however the Environment Agency said this was not the case. "We can confirm that the oil has not entered any watercourse or groundwater source and therefore poses minimal risk to the water environment," it said in a statement. It added that it was working with the local environmental health team. Follow BBC Shropshire on BBC Sounds, Facebook, X and Instagram. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Shropshire Council says it is working with the fire service to reduce callout delays. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. Residents fear operator will be slow to comply with legal order to clear the site of waste. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The rate of inflation in Northern Ireland was significantly below the UK average for much of 2023, experimental data suggests. Figures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) show that in March 2023 the UK rate was 10.1% while in Northern Ireland it was 6.9%. The position has reversed since October with the Northern Ireland rate trending above the UK average. This is largely explained by differences in home heating between Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK. Most Northern Ireland households use oil for home heating while other parts of the UK mainly use gas. The prices of those fuels changed at different rates over different time periods. The ONS said: "Gas experienced very high inflation throughout the first six months of 2023 while inflation rates in heating oil were not as high. "Heating oil also experienced negative inflation earlier in 2023 compared with gas. "The opposite effect has then been taking place since October 2023 with both gas and heating oil experiencing negative inflation but gas being of larger magnitude. "Gas and other fuels had a stronger downward effect on UK annual inflation since October 2023 than Northern Ireland is experiencing." The most recent month of comparable data, July 2024, shows UK inflation at 2.2% and the NI rate at 3.3%. Cumulatively, between January 2022 and July 2024, Northern Ireland inflation was slightly higher at 17% compared with 16.5% for the UK. Inflation is the increase in the price of something over time. The ONS calculates the rate by monitoring a "basket" of goods and services that is representative of spending in the UK. It assigns weighting to the items in the basket, which reflects the amount households spend on each good or service compared with their total consumption. For example, the price of rice going up by 10% will not have the same impact on the overall inflation rate as the price of fuel going up by 10% would. Similarly home-heating oil has a greater weight in Northern Ireland compared to other parts of the UK. The ONS has been conducting an experiment to try to improve the accuracy of consumer price inflation estimates for Northern Ireland. No shortage but Aurigny is spending 120% more on fuel than it was prior to the war, its boss says. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A controversial oil drilling site in Surrey has suspended production months after its planning permission was quashed in a landmark legal case. In June Supreme Court judges ruled that the full climate impact of the fossil fuel project at Horse Hill in Horley should have been considered before being given the go-ahead by Surrey County Council (SCC). However, the council previously said it had followed planning law, while UK Oil and Gas Plc (UKOG) - the company behind the drilling - added that the judgement did not mean work there should stop. But now extraction has ceased, leaving campaigners who had waged a long-running legal battle against it saying they feel "thrilled". “We are thrilled the developer has finally suspended oil drilling at the site," said Niall Toru, lawyer for environmental organisation Friends of the Earth. "The fact it went unchecked for four months raises serious questions for Surrey County Council. "We hope this signals the end of the Horse Hill development once and for all.” In a statement, UKOG said its subsidiary, Horse Hill Developments Ltd (HHDL), had been working with SCC "to find the most pragmatic way forward to achieve the required planning re-determination", including site visits. It noted that the Supreme Court's decision was "not the result of any action, error or omission by the company or its subsidiary", and that HHDL had acted responsibly and "in full regulatory compliance during the six years of production planning consent". "A detailed plan for a safe, full suspension of related operations and activities will be implemented following SCC's concurrence," added UKOG. Further to last week's council announcement which deemed oil production at the site "unlawful" following the Supreme Court ruling, an SCC spokesperson said it was "pleased that commercial production of oil at the site has ceased". "However, discussions remain on-going in relation to full suspension of the site and our planning enforcement investigation remains live." Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook, on X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Bottles and cans are exchanged for a printed ticket that can be swapped for rewards. Merthyr South Wales Ltd sparked anger after submitting a new - and cheaper - restoration plan. An island colony whose koalas are free of chlamydia could help save the wider population from the deadly disease. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A campaigner who launched a legal battle which quashed planning permission for oil drilling near Gatwick is calling for the extraction to end immediately. In June Supreme Court judges said Surrey County Council should have looked at the climate impacts of burning the oil extracted from the site at Horse Hill, outside Horley. The council told the BBC it was "assessing any potential next steps", while the company drilling at the site said the judgement did not tell it "to stop producing". However, Sarah Finch, a campaigner from the Weald Action Group who brought the test case, wants to see the site shut down before a fresh planning application is submitted. She told BBC Radio Surrey: "The judgement said the planning permission was quashed - i.e. there is now no planning permission. "Surrey County Council is the planning authority so it's their responsibility to see that nothing happens that hasn't got planning permission." Ms Finch said she wanted to see the council put a "temporary stop order on that site" before a potential retrospective application is submitted. "If they do, they need to do it quickly," she added. Ms Finch also said she hoped the site would be "restored to agricultural use and woodland". The Reverend Helen Burnett has protested at Horse Hill for the last five years, and said she had been fined after being arrested and charged with obstruction. She said: “What happens here in this funny little back road in Surrey and in Surrey County Council offices really has a huge impact for the wider planning permission for oil extraction in the UK." Horse Hill's wells, run by UK Oil and Gas PLC (UKOG), could produce three million tonnes of oil over twenty years. A company spokesperson said: “We remain in constant dialogue with Surrey County Council and other regulators regarding the retroactive reinstatement of planning permission at Horse Hill. "The Supreme Court judgement did not tell us to stop producing but that Surrey should have considered end uses before granting permission.” They said the company is working with the council over submitting fresh plans. A council statement said: “Following the Supreme Court decision, the council’s planning enforcement team is actively investigating the development at Horse Hill." It added: "The county council is continuing its investigation into the matter and assessing any potential next steps." They said the Supreme Court’s decision meant the application had to be re-determined. “We are actively undertaking an enforcement investigation, and it would not be appropriate to comment further while that is ongoing," they added. UKOG was also approached for comment. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. Summer 2025 was the warmest UK summer on record, with four heatwaves, a top temperature of nearly 38C and a mean temperature of 16.1C The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The government is carrying out 37 investigations into UK-linked businesses for potentially breaking Russian oil sanctions - but no fines have been handed out so far, the BBC can reveal. The identities of the businesses are unknown but it is understood some are likely to be maritime insurance firms. The Treasury said it would take action where appropriate, but pointed to the complexity of the cases as a reason they take considerable time. But Sir William Browder, a longstanding critic of Russian President Vladimir Putin, said it was an "embarrassment" that there had not been a single prosecution or fine for companies investigated for potentially breaching oil sanctions. Financial sanctions on Russia were introduced by the UK and other Western countries following the invasion of Ukraine in 2022. The sanctions include a cap on the price of Russian oil, designed to ensure that oil can keep flowing without Russia making large profits. The cap prohibits British businesses from facilitating the transportation of Russian oil sold above $60 a barrel. Sir William, who heads the Global Magnitsky Justice Campaign, told the BBC the UK "was one of the most lax enforcers of these types of laws". He added: "The UK doesn’t do prosecutions well and I don’t know if that can be fixed overnight. "There seems to be both a resource problem and a culture problem when it comes to prosecuting people for economic crimes or sanctions evasion here." Critics have claimed sanctions are ineffective after the latest figures showed the Russian economy was growing. Data obtained by the BBC using Freedom of Information laws shows the Treasury has opened investigations into 52 companies with a connection to the UK suspected of breaching the price cap since December 2022. As of August, 37 of those investigations were live and 15 had concluded, but no fines had been handed out. Louis Wilson, the head of fossil fuel investigations at anti-corruption organisation Global Witness said it was “quite astonishing” that no fines have yet been handed out. He described the oil cap as a “a sort of paper tiger” that is failing to crack down on rule breaking. If the UK government “prevents British businesses from enabling Putin's profiteering, then I think you'll start to see others following that lead,” he added. Investigations into potential breaches of the oil cap and other financial sanctions are carried out by a Treasury unit called the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI). OFSI received an extra £50m of funding in March to improve enforcement of the UK’s sanctions regime But Mr Wilson said companies under investigation find it “pretty easy to come by” a document that gets them out of trouble. He described the documents as “basically promises, voluntary bits of paper” and said they can be easily obtained even if the company was involved in transporting oil sold above the price cap. “What's likely is either these businesses will find the paperwork that they need to get through this process, or we'll see the UK government drop these cases quietly,” he said. He claimed the US were reluctant to make the Western sanctions regimes harder “because they're scared that if they do enforce the rules it will stop the Russian oil trade and that will send oil prices higher”. Conservative shadow foreign office minister Dame Harriett Baldwin said sanctions were designed to “shut down the sources of finance for Russia's war machine” and “bring this illegal invasion to an end sooner”. She said “there is probably more that could be done” by the government and the oil sector itself “because it does appear that UK importers are still bringing in oil that originated in Russia". It is important that when OFSI “find deliberate wrongdoing they are exacting financial penalties,” she added. A spokesperson for the Treasury said it would take enforcement action "where appropriate" and it was "putting sanction breachers on notice". They added that the cap was reducing Russia's tax revenues from oil, adding that data from the country's own finance ministry showed a 30% drop last year compared to 2022. The former chair of Parliament’s Treasury Select Committee launched an inquiry into the effectiveness of sanctions on Russia in February. Dame Harriett said she “received evidence that the oil price cap is being evaded by refining Russian oil in refineries based in third countries and then the oil is being exported into the UK.” Earlier this year the BBC reported on claims about how much oil this so-called “loophole” is allowing into the UK. But parliamentary committees are disbanded once an election is called and the findings of the Treasury committee inquiry were never published. It is understood no decision has yet been made as to whether the new Treasury Select Committee will recommence the work. OFSI issued its first Russia-related penalty last month, when it fined a concierge company £15,000 for having a sanctioned individual on its client list. London-based firm Integral Concierge Services was found to have made or received 26 payments that involved a person whose assets have been frozen as part of the Russia sanctions. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Petrol prices could rise following the closure of an oil depot, drivers are being warned. Dalston oil depot in Cumbria is to be closed at the end of the year after its owner, Petroineos, said the site had been operating at a loss. Ian Chambers who runs the Chambers Garage in Tirril, near Penrith, said the closure would lead to higher costs for petrol stations, which could be passed on to customers. Petroineos said it had informed customers of its closure plans and had given them time to "arrange alternative sources" from the "well-served" market. The Dalston depot is one of 63 oil terminals based in the UK and the only one located in Cumbria. It receives fuel from the Grangemouth Refinery, in Scotland, which Petroineos plans to close in the second quarter of 2025. Mr Chambers said his petrol station had been operating for more than 60 years and he had always tried to help the community by selling fuel at a "good price". But he said his low prices have been jeopardised by the closure plans. "All the suppliers in Cumbria draw their fuel from the Dalston terminal and if it shuts there is nowhere else to go apart from much further afield," Mr Chambers said. "[That] is going to lead to extra costs for the haulier to go and collect and deliver it, which he then has to pass on to us and then we have to pass it on to our customers." A spokesman for Petroineos said: "We have been incurring financial losses on supplies into Dalston for some time now, along with the wider financial losses being incurred by the refinery. "Our rail contract expires at the end of the year and we have informed customers at Dalston that we won't be renewing that contract, giving them time to arrange alternative sources in a market that is well-served by other refineries and suppliers." Follow BBC Cumbria on X, Facebook, Nextdoor and Instagram. Send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. A sanctuary describes the "worse case of cruelty and abuse" it has ever seen after donkeys were dumped. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Some of those who walked from Penrith to Lindisfarne in 1976 are returning again 50 years on. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
As the conflict across the Middle East widens, rising oil prices are being closely watched. The cost of oil affects everything from the price of food at the supermarket to how much it costs to fill up your car. The price of crude oil has risen almost 10% this week to around $78 a barrel as the conflict has intensified. That may seem like a big jump, but the price of crude oil tends to be volatile, and in the aftermath of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, a barrel of benchmark Brent crude hit almost $130. The uptick comes as many countries, including the UK, are just beginning to recover from the sharp rise in oil prices after the Covid pandemic and Russia's war in Ukraine. So how worried should we be? Crude oil is a key ingredient in petrol and diesel, meaning higher oil prices could drive up prices at the pumps just when they've just hit their lowest level for three years. If a company delivering goods, such as food, is hit by higher fuel costs, it is also likely to raise its prices. These increased costs could then be passed on by supermarkets selling the food to us, the consumer. The cost of living goes up. "Everything we go and buy in the shop has been transported around and has been made from things that have been transported around. The increase in fuel costs tends to filter into everything," Callum Macpherson, head of commodities at Investec, tells the BBC. Andrew Bailey, governor of the Bank of England, which sets interest rates, has warned the conflict in the Middle East has the potential to have a "very serious" impact on the UK. Mr Bailey said he was watching developments "extremely closely". This comes as he signalled interest rates are on the path downwards, and the UK's prospects on inflation - which has come down after being driven up by high oil and gas prices in 2022 - are looking brighter. Yet so far a rise to about $78 a barrel is not the time for alarm bells. If the "worst-case scenario" of further escalation does not materialise, oil prices are likely to "ease back quite quickly", says Caroline Bain, chief commodities economist at Capital Economics. Iran is the world's seventh largest oil exporter, with half of its exports going to China. If supplies were disrupted, China could turn to Russia. But Ms Bain warns markets are "finely balanced", and if the conflict escalates, "taking out a medium-sized supplier like Iran would lead to a spike in prices". She says there is "more than enough capacity" globally to cover the gap if Iranian production is lost, but there is the question of where Saudi Arabia's "loyalty will lie" as the world's second largest oil producer and whether it will increase or restrict further production. Mr Macpherson says if Israel did decide to attack Iran's oil sector, a rise in the price of Brent crude could increase the cost of filling up at the pumps "quite quickly". He explains that this scenario could threaten general inflation in the UK, which could in turn influence any decision from the Bank of England to lower interest rates. However, he also points out "there might not ultimately be any disruption to supply" at all. The direct impact of Iran's oil production is not the only concern. There is a risk that any escalation in the region could block the Strait of Hormuz, a relatively narrow channel through which a huge amount of oil tanker traffic passes -about a third of total seaborne-traded oil. It is also the path through which a fifth of liquefied natural gas (LNG) is transported, a commodity that the world has become more dependent on since sanctions were imposed on Russia following its invasion of Ukraine. Asia is most physically dependent on the flow of oil and gas out of the Persian Gulf, and the immediate impact of an escalation would be significant. Disruption to LNG shipments from one of the world's biggest exporters in Qatar would lead to higher gas prices - which could in turn lead to a rise in household gas and electricity bills. As with oil, gas prices filter down supply chains, affecting the cost of virtually all goods. UK energy bills have risen 10% for this winter, but are currently predicted to fall slightly in January. This forecast could change of course, if an escalation to the conflict in the Middle East affects global gas supplies, and leads to higher prices. But Ms Bain says the risk of strait being blocked as a result of the conflict is small. And if it does transpire, Mr Macpherson adds the effect on the UK would be minimal, given that most of Europe's gas is supplied mainly from Norway. There are a lot of possible outcomes, but in terms of what will happen with oil prices in the coming weeks and months, "nobody knows", Mr Macpherson admits. There's a "wide spectrum" of what could come next, he adds, but "there is really no way of telling where we will be this time next week". The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The age at which people can start receiving the state pension is going up in stages over the next two years. A search and rescue mission also came under fire, bringing down another jet over the Persian Gulf. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The cost of home heating oil has dropped to the lowest levels since July 2023. On average, it will cost about £286.83 to fill a 500 litre tank, according to figures from the Northern Ireland Consumer Council. About two-thirds of households in Northern Ireland heat their homes using oil. As temperatures continue to drop and the winter months begin creeping in, is now a good time to fill up your home heating oil tank? Raymond Gormley from the Consumer Council said oil prices tend to rise during the colder months as people use their heating more. "Supply and demand is a main factor in driving prices up and down," the body's head of energy policy said. "My advice is if you need oil, I would get it. "I'm not telling people to run out and buy oil, but I'm just saying if you need oil, I would get oil rather than wait and see what the situation is." During the same period in 2023, 500 litres of oil was about £100 more expensive. But there are fears unrest in the Middle East and China's new stimulus plan to boost its economy could see prices begin to rise again. Earlier this week, a number of oil rigs along the US Gulf of Mexico shut down due to concerns around Hurricane Helene, which could raise questions about supply. Israeli air strikes against Hezbollah in Lebanon have killed hundreds of people in the deadliest escalation of cross-border attacks in decades. Mr Gormley said an escalation of conflict in the Middle East could have a knock-on effect on prices. "The Middle East is another major oil region, so all those things come into play, and you could see oil prices certainly increase. "It’s really hard to predict, but all those elements would come into play." One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. The age at which people can start receiving the state pension is going up in stages over the next two years. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The triple lock guarantees that the state pension is not overtaken by inflation or wage increases. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Petrol prices have fallen to their lowest level for three years, with the average price for a litre of unleaded costing about £1.35, the RAC has said. Lower global oil prices and a stronger pound were the main reasons prices had fallen, the motoring group said. The figure is considerably lower than in July 2022, when petrol prices hit a record high of almost £1.92 per litre when oil prices surged following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Simon Williams, fuel spokesman for the RAC, said petrol prices could fall further. "We believe there is scope for pump prices to come down further in the next few weeks to reflect the lower wholesale costs retailers are paying when they buy fresh fuel stocks," Mr Williams said. Depending on where drivers were filling up,  he said people could be "paying as little as £1.26 for a litre of unleaded - making the cost of refuelling a typical family car come in at under £70". The average price of diesel is around £1.41 per litre which is also close to a three-year low, based on data from the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA). The falling price of fuel will come as a boost to drivers, who have been hit hard in recent years by higher prices for all consumer goods. The RAC has been critical of retailers, claiming that they have failed to drop prices as swiftly as they should have as wholesale costs have fallen. Concerns over fuel prices prompted the competition regulator, the CMA, to look into the sector. It said in July weakened competition in the fuel sector was  impacting drivers' wallets and that supermarkets' profit margins - which is the difference between the price they buy fuel at and what they charge motorists - had doubled since 2019. But the Petrol Retailers Association (PRA), which represents independent forecourts, has argued its members' margins have been "under pressure" due to higher labour and energy costs, and reduced sales. The RAC said the reason for "tumbling" pump prices now was due to "a relatively low oil price" of about $75 per barrell due to lower global demand, "combined with a relatively strong pound" helped by inflation falling. With fuel traded in US dollars, a stronger pound means UK fuel retailers get more "bang for their buck" when buying in new stock on the wholesale market, the RAC said. Fuel prices rose sharply amid fears of a global economic shock following Russia's invasion of Ukraine. Russia is the third-largest oil exporter and some Western countries, decided to halt or restrict imports from the country in response to Russia's actions. It meant demand for oil from other producers increased, leading to increased prices. At one point Brent crude - the global benchmark for oil prices - jumped to $139 a barrel, the highest level for almost 14 years. The UK only imports about 6% of oil from Russia, so is not as dependent on Russia as other European countries are and has said it plans to phase it out. It is, however, affected by the global shifts in price. One elderly couple had to find £1,000 for an oil delivery and suppliers are not giving quotes, a councillor says. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The final costs of a landmark case brought against Surrey County Council over planning permission for oil wells are likely to be upwards of £70,000. The authority will pay the appellant's costs for bringing the case to the High Court and the Court of Appeal, capped at £35,000 each. It will also pay the cost of bringing the case to the Supreme Court, which is yet to be confirmed. Councillors will discuss the implications of the case at a planning and regulatory meeting on Wednesday. The council had granted planning permission for the Horse Hill site in Horley to expand its operations in 2019. Sarah Finch, who challenged the decision on behalf of the Weald Action Group, brought the case to the High Court and the Court of Appeal before being granted permission to take the matter to the Supreme Court, where it was heard in June. Supreme Court judges did not rule that Surrey County Council should reject the proposal for new oil wells, but that it should have considered the downstream emissions. The planning permission granted was quashed by the Supreme Court, though the council said it believed at the time it had followed planning law. At the time of the decision, Stephen Sanderson, the chief executive of UK Oil and Gas PLC - the company behind the Horse Hill project - said the court's ruling was "perplexing". Ms Finch told supporters she was "absolutely over the moon" to have won the case, described as a landmark decision which could put future UK oil and gas projects in question. Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook, and on X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A decision to approve the multi-million pound expansion of an oil terminal on the shores of Belfast Lough is to be quashed, the High Court in Belfast has heard. Approval for expanding the Cloghan Point facility was granted by Mid and East Antrim Council in April 2024, but a residents group in Whitehead objected to the plans and launched a legal challenge over the plans. Members of the Stop Whitehead Oil Terminal (SWOT) have declared themselves "fully vindicated" on Monday after it emerged the case against the council was no longer being contested. The court decision on Monday now means the council must reconsider the expansion plans. Cloghan Point was built in the 1970s to serve Ballylumford and Kilroot power stations which it did for several years. But recently it has been used to store part of the Republic of Ireland's strategic reserve of diesel and gas oil. A company had applied to Mid and East Antrim Borough Council for planning permission to expand the site. Despite objections from local residents, the project was recommended for approval by the planning committee. The Department for Infrastructure (DfI) had confirmed by letter that it did not believe the project had sufficient impact for it to be called in. The legal action, backed by the Public Interest Litigation Support group, sought to have the council's decision to grant planning permission quashed and declared unlawful. In court on Monday it emerged that the case against the local authority was no longer being contested. Mr Justice McAlinden confirmed: “There is an order by consent, quashing the planning approval in that application.” A separate challenge against the department for failing to call-in the expansion project under powers within the Planning Act (NI) was adjourned generally. Amid claims that part of the case was now academic, the campaign group could potentially revive those proceedings after the development proposal is reconsidered. Outside court following the court decision, Whitehead resident Clodagh Miskelly, who took the judicial review on behalf of the SWOT group, said she was "delighted" and felt "vindicated". “This is what we have been campaigning for all along,” she said. Ms Miskelly claimed the facilities at Cloghan Point will have a wider impact on Belfast Lough and the surrounding ecosystem. “This is fossil fuel infrastructure in the middle of a climate crisis, it’s going to impact on net-zero targets which we are already lagging behind,” she said. A wreath was laid by the Irish President Catherine Connolly at the General Post Office (GPO) in the Irish capital and in Belfast thousands of people turned out for a parade in the west of the city. The disorder, which happened before the Irish Cup semi-final at Windsor Park, saw fireworks, flares and bottles thrown. A yellow weather warning for wind came into force at 14:00 BST on Saturday and ended at 03:00 BST on Sunday. The new rules will be introduced in October and are described as the most significant reform of driver licensing for 70 years. A small counter protest organised by 'Causeway Trade Union Council' also gathered in the same area in opposition of the rally. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The European Union's naval mission in the Red Sea says private companies have called off attempts to salvage a burning oil tanker because the situation is unsafe. The Greek-owned and flagged MV Sounion, carrying about a million barrels of crude, was abandoned by its crew after it was hit by projectiles fired by Yemen’s Houthi movement on 21 August. Fighters later detonated explosives onboard, sparking several fires. Last Wednesday, the Houthis said they had agreed to allow the tanker to be towed away to avert an unprecedented environmental disaster. The EU mission, which was providing security to the tugs involved in the salvage operation, said “alternative solutions" were being explored. On Monday, the mission reported that fires continued to burn on the tanker’s main deck. “The vessel remains anchored without drifting, and there are no visible signs of an oil spill,” it said. The United States has warned that a spill from the Sounion could be almost four times as large as the Exxon Valdez disaster in 1989. That incident saw 2,100km (1,300 miles) of coastline contaminated after a tanker ran aground off Alaska. The Iran-backed Houthis have repeatedly targeted commercial shipping in the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden since November. They say they are acting in support of the Palestinians in the war between Israel and Hamas in the Gaza Strip. They have claimed - often falsely - that they are targeting ships only linked to Israel, the US or the UK. They have not been deterred by the deployment of Western warships to protect merchant vessels or by US and British air strikes on territory they control in north-western Yemen. Israel also bombed Hudaydah’s port in July in retaliation for a deadly drone strike on Tel Aviv. The Houthis attacked the Sounion two weeks ago with gunfire from small boats, before hitting it with three unidentified projectiles, the UK Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) agency said at the time. Its 25 crew members were rescued by a European warship. The tanker was later attacked again, with footage released by the group last Thursday showing Houthi fighters boarding the ship and detonating at least six bombs simultaneously. The leader of the Houthis called the attack “brave and bold” in a recent address. The Houthis have continued to attack oil tankers in the Red Sea in recent days. On Monday, the US military’s Central Command said the Panama-owned and flagged MV Blue Lagoon I and the Saudi-owned and flagged MV Amjad were hit by two ballistic missiles and a one-way attack drone. The Amjad is carrying approximately two million barrels of oil – almost twice the amount on the Sounion. “These reckless acts of terrorism by the Houthis continue to destabilize regional and global commerce, as well as put the lives of civilian mariners and maritime ecosystems at risk,” Central Command said. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Bottles and cans are exchanged for a printed ticket that can be swapped for rewards. Merthyr South Wales Ltd sparked anger after submitting a new - and cheaper - restoration plan. An island colony whose koalas are free of chlamydia could help save the wider population from the deadly disease. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two sanctioned Russian oligarchs have become part-owners of the UK's largest oil producer after it completed a deal to buy a German firm. LetterOne, the investment company part-owned by oligarchs Mikhail Fridman and Petr Aven, now owns nearly 15% of Harbour Energy. LetterOne itself is not sanctioned, and the two Russians have no contact with the firm and don't receive any share of its profits. Harbour Energy is the largest oil and gas producer in UK waters. It has bought most of the oil and gas production assets of a Germany-based firm, Wintershall DEA, from the chemicals giant BASF. LetterOne was a part-owner of Wintershall, and shares have been exchanged for shares in Harbour Energy. Some of Wintershall's Russia-linked assets, including a joint venture with Gazprom, are not part of the deal and remain with BASF. Under the terms of the deal, LetterOne will have no voting rights in Harbour Energy, but it will receive a share of Harbour's profits paid as dividends. LetterOne's shares could potentially convert into voting shares if the two Russians cease to be sanctioned, but that would require government approval. LetterOne owns a diverse range of assets around the world, worth $18bn (£13.8bn), including the health food retailer Holland and Barrett. Fridman and Aven were sanctioned in March 2022 shortly after Russia invaded Ukraine. Together they own just under 50% of the group. Most of the rest is owned by another Russian, Andrei Kosogov, who is not sanctioned. The government forced LetterOne to sell a regional broadband provider, Upp, in 2022 over fears that it represented a "risk to national security". LetterOne denied this and is appealing the decision. Louis Wilson, head of fossil fuel investigations at campaign group Global Witness, said: "The UK government and Harbour should have run a mile from this deal. “A company part-owned by sanctioned Russian oligarchs, which the Tories considered too much of a security risk to own a few thousand UK broadband connections, has been given a big chunk of the UK’s biggest oil producer. "Oligarchs should have no place in the UK’s energy industry’’. A LetterOne spokesperson said: "LetterOne is committed to making long-term investments in businesses that matter. “We are proud to be part of a bigger, stronger UK energy business that will bolster energy security, increase investment and create jobs while helping deliver the nation's ambitious energy transition goals." Harbour Energy declined to comment. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The mysterious tanker that caused a major oil spill after capsizing off Trinidad and Tobago in February has been successfully refloated, the government said. The operation was completed on Monday, and the vessel - known only as the Gulfstream - will now be inspected by divers before being towed away, the energy ministry said. The ship was found with no crew onboard after running aground and overturning off south-western Tobago. No emergency calls were made and local authorities have been unable to find anyone responsible for the incident. Since then some 50,000 barrels of oil have leaked, damaging the Caribbean island's pristine beaches and prompting the government to declare a national emergency. In a statement, the energy ministry said the Gulfstream was now afloat in an overturned state 60m (197ft) deep in the sea, secured and supported by tugs. A team of divers will assess the tanker and remove any hanging debris that could impact its towing to the capital Port-of-Spain in Trinidad. The government has so far been unable to find who was responsible for the incident, which happened on the eve of the country's carnival celebrations. Soon after the spillage occurred, the authorities suggested the tanker had originated in Panama and had been towed by a tugboat. They said it appeared "to have been bound for Guyana". During a clean-up operation, some 1,000 volunteers worked alongside government staff on Tobago's beaches. In May, Energy Minister Stuart Young estimated that the overall damage could reach $30m (£23m). In the first few weeks the oil spill spread hundreds of miles, reaching as far as the island of Bonaire, a Dutch municipality, in the Caribbean. It appears to be the first ship owned by a major European firm to go through the strait since the conflict began. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The Philippines is in a race against time to contain an oil spill after a tanker carrying close to 1.5 million litres (400,000 gallons) of industrial fuel capsized and sank off the country's coast, officials say. There are fears the "enormous" spill - which is already stretching out over several kilometres - could reach the shore of the capital, Manila, coast guard spokesman Rear Admiral Armando Balilo told reporters. The ship was one of two which sank in the region on Thursday, with the second going down just off Taiwan's south-western coast. Both Taiwan and the Philippines are seeing large amounts of rain as Typhoon Gaemi moves through the area, causing widespread flooding. The typhoon made landfall in mainland China on Thursday evening local time, with authorities declaring the highest tier disaster warning. It first struck Taiwan on Wednesday evening, killing three as it made its way across the island. Four counties and cities in Taiwan saw more than a thousand millimetres of rainfall during a 14-hour period ending Thursday afternoon. The Philippines avoided a direct hit by Gaemi, but the storm intensified seasonal monsoon rains, triggering widespread flooding across large swathes of Metro Manila and its suburbs. Despite the heavy rains, the MT Terra Nova, which sails under the Philippines' flag, had not broken any regulations around travelling in heavy weather, according to Rear Admiral Balilo. The tanker was heading for the central Philippine city of Iloilo when it sank, with 17 crew members on board. One died, but 16 were successfully rescued, officials said. Authorities are investigating whether bad weather was a factor. The coast guard is now "racing against time" to contain the spill, which could - if all of the oil leaks - become the biggest in the country's history. High winds and rough seas were hampering their attempts, however. Even if they managed to avoid a catastrophe of that magnitude, Rear Admiral Balilo said it would "definitely affect the marine environment". Pando Hicap, chairman of local fishing group Pamalakaya, said the spill was "alarming" because fishermen's livelihoods were "dependent on the waters". "They don't have any alternative," he told news agency AFP. Meanwhile, to the north in Taiwan, all nine sailors were initially reported missing after their Tanzania-flagged cargo ship Fu Shun went down. The Myanmar nationals were forced to abandon the sinking ship, Hsiao Huan-chang, head of the fire agency, told AFP. "They fell into the sea and were floating there," he said. The first attempts to reach the crew, who were wearing lifejackets, were hampered by the low visibility and high winds, but by the end of Thursday three had been reported rescued. The typhoon was originally expected to hit further north, but the mountains of northern Taiwan steered it slightly south towards the city of Hualien. The typhoon is expected to weaken as it tracks over the mountainous terrain of Taiwan before re-emerging in the Taiwan Strait towards China. A second landfall is expected in the Fujian province in southeastern China later on Thursday. Several rail operators in China have also suspended operations. Strong winds battered the country on Saturday through the night, with a top wind speed of 73mph recorded in Buchan, Aberdeenshire. Gusts of wind of up to 93mph have been recorded in Dyffryn Mymbyr near Capel Curig in north Wales. Power firm SSEN predicts wind gusts could reach about 80mph in parts of the country over the Easter weekend. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Several regions are flooded in mainland Greece, while a Saharan dust storm envelopes the island of Crete. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
More than 20 swans have been rescued from a river following an oil spill. Berkshire-based Swan Support was first alerted to the birds wading in "thick, black oil" in the River Kennet, in Reading, on 16 July. Wendy Hermon, who has worked with the charity for 30 years, said it was a regular feeding area for more than 40 birds, and oil spills were now an "annual occurrence". Thames Water described it as a "third party spill" and said it had worked with the Environment Agency (EA) to place booms on the river to "minimise impact to wildlife in the area". A Thames Water spokesperson said: “We were made aware of a third party oil spill on Cholmeley Road on Tuesday 16 July, which spilt into our surface water pipes and into the River Kennet." They added: "We have also carried out a clean-up of our pipework and are carrying out regular testing of our surface water sewer on this street.” The EA assisted Thames Water at the scene on Sunday and Monday. Ms Hermon said it was "very frustrating and upsetting to have to deal with this especially as it could have been avoided". She said the birds got distressed when they were removed from the water and cleaned but it was necessary for their safety. Oil removes a bird's natural waterproofing and can cause them to sink in the water. "Unfortunately this is a common occurrence in this area and would be better if the response times from the the EA was quicker as this may have stopped it getting worse," Ms Hermon said. A spokesperson for the EA said: “Our specialist officers attended the incident of oil pollution on the River Kennet in Reading and have been working with Thames Water to intercept any further oil discharge and reduce impacts. “We are also investigating the source of the oil that has entered the drainage system leading to the river." Follow BBC South on Facebook, X (Twitter), or Instagram. Send your story ideas to south.newsonline@bbc.co.uk or via WhatsApp on 0808 100 2240. The charity plans to move to a larger building in Reading, launching a campaign to make it possible. Reading fair to embrace English leg's official start point on the famous Camino de Santiago route. The local wildfowl warden Don Phillips hopes more will hatch over Easter. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A prayer was held a few months ago in Kano, a very religious city in northern Nigeria. It was organised to pray for the success of a huge new Nigerian oil refinery that next month is due to start producing petrol for the first time. Praying for such an industrial facility might seem incongruous, but many Nigerians are hopeful that the Dangote Petroleum Refinery will lead to both a big increase in the availability of petrol, and a subsequent drop in prices. The $19bn (£15bn) refinery, based along the coast from Nigeria’s commercial hub Lagos, in the south of the country, is the size of almost 4,000 football pitches. Its construction began back in 2016, and it started production of diesel and an aviation fuel in January of this year. Petrol is now set to follow. The hope is that the facility will end Nigeria’s dependence on imports of these fuels. While Nigeria is Africa’s largest producer of crude oil, and the world’s 15th biggest, none of its existing government-owned refineries are operational. The privately-owned Dangote refinery has been built by Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote. Born in Kano, the 67-year-old has a net worth of $12.6bn (£9.7bn), according to Forbes magazine. Via his company, Dangote Group, he made his fortune in cement and sugar before taking on what many say is his biggest challenge yet when he launched the refinery. The recent prayer session in Kano was organised by shop owner Lado Danladi, and held at a nearby mosque. He was joined by some of his neighbouring shopkeepers. “I run a small phone charging shop, and every day I buy $5 petrol for my small generator as there’s no stable electricity,” says Mr Danladi. “But since I heard about the Dangote Refinery I have been praying for its success. “I can't estimate the hours I have lost trying to get fuel in the past during shortages, so hopefully the refinery will end the suffering, and help small businesses like mine get cheap and easy fuel.” Mr Danladi’s fellow shop owners, a meat seller, and a drinks vendor all have similar complaints of buying “expensive” fuel to power generators. For decades Nigerians enjoyed subsidised petrol prices. But last year incoming President Bola Tinubu stopped the subsidies, saying that they were no longer affordable. This led to prices surging by as much as four-fold. Then this spring and early summer, shortages of petrol led to queues outside petrol stations, and the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Company warned against people panic buying. The situation is not helped by Nigeria's corruption problem. According to the closely-watched global corruption index, from non-governmental organisation Transparency International, Nigeria ranks 145th out of 180 countries. The higher the placing, the more corrupt a country is deemed to be. The Dangote refinery will have the capacity to produce 650,000 barrels of fuel per day once fully operational. Devakumar Edwin, vice president of Dangote Group says the refinery will be producing 500,000 before the end of August, which will exceed the country’s 480,000 barrels per day usage. The aim is to export the surplus. Abubakar Maigandi, the president of Nigeria’s independent petrol marketers, who has been in the oil business for 30 years, says the Dangote refinery will solve their longstanding logistics problem. “I foresee Dangote refinery solving the logistics issue we face at the moment trying to get hold of imported petrol for consumers, since this will be refined here in Nigeria,” he says. “This will also mean cheaper petrol for Nigerians since importation costs have been removed. My hope is also that Dangote refinery deal with us directly without middlemen who will complicate things.” Meanwhile, Mr Dangote said in an interview on 21 July that he might be prepared to sell the refinery in the future to the state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Company. Speaking to the Premium Times newspaper, he said that some people were opposed to him owning such a crucial facility. Nigerian public affairs analyst Sani Bala says the Dangote refinery needs to “crash the price of petrol” for its impact to be felt across the country. He adds: “Personally, I also think we shouldn’t be solely relying on the Dangote refinery for our energy needs. What if something happens to it? We go back to drawing board. There should be another working refinery. “Also, as an environmental activist it also concerns me the level of emissions, we’ll be seeing from this mammoth oil refining facility not forgetting the impact on those communities nearby.” Speaking about the impact of the facility on local people, a dialogue was held to discuss concerns last year. Youth leader Arepo Azeez says there are numerous issues, such as “vibrations” from the refinery. "We also worry over possible accidental discharges of crude oil into the waters, incidences of mishandling of equipment, which will result in the spilling of crude oil, and even refined products when the refinery fully comes on stream." Yet for Mr Lado back in Kano, he is really looking forward to the prospect of much cheaper petrol. Additional reporting by Nkechi Ogbonna. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. People evicted to build Nigeria's capital accuse the government of failing to fulfill its promises to them. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A decision to approve an oilfield in the Lincolnshire Wolds has been quashed following a Supreme Court judgment, lawyers have said. Campaigners from SOS Biscathorpe had brought the claim against the government after it approved plans for exploratory oil drilling and production last year. Legal representatives for the campaigners said, prior to the general election, the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities had conceded the case. The developer, Egdon Resources, said it intended to "consider the outcome carefully before deciding the next steps with the project". The Lincolnshire Wolds is a designated Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty. Lincolnshire County Council originally refused permission for the site but, in 2023, the Planning Inspectorate overturned the decision saying it was in the "public interest". Amanda Suddaby, from SOS Biscathorpe, said their group was "delighted that 10 years of hard-work and campaigning have finally paid off". She added: "Our hope now is that this paves the way to a full and proper understanding of the great harm that each and every new fossil fuel development represents." In June, justices at the Supreme Court said emissions created by burning fossil fuels should be considered when granting planning permission for new drilling sites. Solicitor Julia Eriksen, who represents the campaigners, said: "We hope this success in Lincolnshire is a positive sign for similar cases still before the courts." Follow BBC Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastyorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Cargo from the remains of the oldest shipwreck to be found in the deep sea has been discovered in the eastern Mediterranean, Israeli archaeologists have said. Hundreds of intact amphorae - ancient storage jars - believed to be 3,300 years old, were discovered 90km (56 miles) off the northern coast of Israel at a depth of 1,800m (5,905ft) on the sea bed. Experts at the Israel Antiquities Authority (IAA) say the discovery suggests sailors of the period were able to navigate the oceans by using celestial navigation - taking bearings from the sun and stars. The wreck was found during a routine oil and gas survey. According to the IAA, the shipwreck is the "first and oldest" to be found in the region and probably sank during a storm or as a result of a pirate attack. "This find reveals to us as never before the ancient mariners’ navigational skills," said Jacob Sharvit, head of the IAA's marine unit. He added it showed our ancestors were capable of traversing the Mediterranean Sea "without a line of sight to any coast". "From this geographical point, only the horizon is visible all around. To navigate they probably used the celestial bodies, by taking sightings and angles of the sun and star positions.” The cargo was spotted by robot submersibles belonging to the oil and gas firm Energean which was looking for potential new energy sources off the Israeli coast. Cameras picked up "what seemed to be a large pile of jugs heaped on the seafloor", according to the company's Karnit Bahartan. Only two of the amphorae - believed to have been used by the Canaanite people who lived in an area stretching from modern-day Turkey to Egypt - were removed using specially designed tools, so as not to disturb the remaining artefacts. Dr Bahartan described their discovery as a "truly sensational find". She said that only two other shipwrecks with cargo are known from the late Bronze Age in the Mediterranean Sea, both of which were found relatively close to the Turkish coast using normal diving equipment. "Based on these two finds, the academic assumption until now was that trade in that time was executed by safely flitting from port to port, hugging the coastline within eye contact," Dr Bahartan said. "The discovery of this boat now changes our entire understanding of ancient mariner abilities. "It is the very first to be found at such a great distance with no line of sight to any landmass," she said. The jars are expected to go on display this summer at the National Campus for the Archaeology of Israel in Jerusalem. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A legal representative for campaigners fighting against oil drilling on the Lincolnshire Wolds has questioned a planning inspectors decision to approve it. The High Court hearing was brought by SOS Biscathorpe after a government decision last year to allow work to begin. Estelle Dehon KC questioned whether the amount of oil at the site would made a significant difference to the UK's energy security. The developer, Egdon Resources, said it is confident of extracting oil from the site without an adverse impact on the environment. Lincolnshire County Council originally refused permission for the site but, in 2023, the Planning Inspectorate overturned the decision saying it was in the "public interest". The ruling said any environmental impact to the Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty was outweighed by the importance of sourcing oil from a UK-based project. The row over drilling at the site has continued for more than 10 years and, ahead of the hearing, campaigners held placards outside the Royal Courts of Justice. Amanda Suddaby told the BBC: "We have to stop looking for new sources of fossil fuels. It's absolute madness that we're still looking for it". The case continues on Thursday when Egdon Resources is expected to provide more detailed evidence to support the decision to approve the project. A judgment in the case is expected to be deferred for several months. Follow BBC Lincolnshire on Facebook, X (formerly Twitter), and Instagram. Send your story ideas to eastyorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk We look at some of the highlights that can be found on the trail as it weaves through Lincolnshire. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Campaigners from villages near to a proposed oil drilling site in the Lincolnshire Wolds will be at the High Court in London later to try to stop it going ahead. The legal action by SOS Biscathorpe is attempting to overturn a government decision made last year to allow work to begin. The site is in an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB) and campaigners are concerned that a nearby chalk stream could be contaminated. The drilling company Egdon Resources said its operation would be done safely, adding there was a need for "indigenous oil and gas as the UK transitions to a low carbon economy”. Campaigners have been fighting to stop the drilling for more than 10 years. Mathilda Dennis, from SOS Biscathorpe, believes the scheme could harm the environment and is unnecessary. She said: "We clearly believe we have a case otherwise we would not have spent so much energy working on this. "In the past 10 years they haven't been able to produce any oil from Biscathorpe, which is great. They have been there, but they haven't got what they wanted." In a statement, Egdon Resources said it thought all the grounds for challenging the decision granting planning permission should be dismissed. It added: "The Inspector reviewed all the relevant evidence before him and came to a balanced planning decision in allowing the appeal. "The embedded safeguards within the design of the wellsite, and the rigorous technical assessments that accompanied the planning application, demonstrate that the risks to environmental sensitive receptors are very low and can be properly managed." The company said minerals could only be extracted where they are found, adding "there will continue to be a need for indigenous oil and gas as the UK transitions to a low carbon economy”. Lawyers are expected to argue whether it was in the public interest to grant planning permission in an AONB. The hearing will also examine the potential environmental impact of the project and whether this can be justified. Should the judge rule that the decision by the government to allows drilling was taken unlawfully, it may then be quashed. The case will be heard over two days at the Royal Courts of Justice. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Tanker drivers at Stanlow oil refinery are set to strike this week over what they say is a significantly lower pay offer than colleagues across the country. Members of Unite working for Hoyer - recently rebranded as Oxalis - are set to walk out of the Ellesmere Port site from Thursday to Saturday and then from 13 to 15 June. It will affect deliveries to garage forecourts across the North West and Scottish Borders as well as deliveries of aviation fuel, the union said. The company said it has contingency plans so that its operations can continue. "Oxalis is treating its Stanlow-based drivers as second-class workers," Unite general secretary Sharon Graham said. She said there was "absolutely no reason" why the "profitable company should not be paying these workers the same rates as pay as their colleagues based elsewhere". Unite regional officer Paul Lomax.  said: "Oxalis's clients will not be happy that their customers face fuel shortages because the company is trying to pay its Stanlow-based drivers less than their colleagues doing the same job elsewhere." He said Oxalis needed to put forward an equal offer "or this dispute will escalate". An Oxalis spokesperson said the company had offered drivers a 19% pay increase over two years. "Any further increase severely compromises the viability of the operation and puts jobs at risk," they added. The spokesperson said further talks with the union were planned and while they hoped to reach "a mutually agreeable deal", contingency plans were in place. Listen to the best of BBC Radio Merseyside on Sounds and follow BBC Merseyside on Facebook, X, and Instagram. You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk Several rail services in north-western England have been disrupted due to damage caused by Storm Dave. This time of year can often mean an increase in the antisocial and illegal use of e-bikes, police warn. There is a wide range of free activities for families across the region during the school holidays. XL bully dogs were banned two years ago - BBC News looks at why attacks may still be happening. The equipment is used to cut people free from cars and was stolen overnight. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Four protesters have been arrested at the annual general meeting of UK oil giant BP. Police said a group attempted to enter the auditorium of the International Centre for Business and Technology building in Sunbury-on-Thames, Surrey. During a routine search carried out by BP security staff as the four people tried to enter the meeting, a red liquid was thrown, said police. Det Ch Supt Juliet Parker said: “Where lawful, we will seek to facilitate peaceful protests, but any violence and risk to public safety will not be tolerated.” A 33-year-old man and two women – aged 24 and 40 – were arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to commit criminal damage. A 27-year-old woman was also arrested on suspicion of criminal damage and common assault on a security officer. The group, all from London, were removed from the building by security staff before they were arrested by police. Ms Parker said: “Criminal activity will not be tolerated in any form. “Thanks to the quick response by BP's security staff and our officers, we were able to ensure everyone was kept safe.” A statement shared by Fossil Free London on X, formerly Twitter, said: “We've just disrupted BP's AGM. “We are in shock at this overreach of peaceful protest.” Follow BBC Surrey on Facebook, on X. Send your story ideas to southeasttoday@bbc.co.uk  or WhatsApp us on 08081 002250. The dispersal order in Staines is in force until 10:00 BST on Tuesday, Surrey Police says. Surrey Police says it has been receiving reports of chocolate thefts from local shops. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. The dispersal order in Staines is in force until 10:00 BST on Sunday, Surrey Police says. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Oil and gold prices have eased after Iranian authorities appeared to downplay reports of an attack from Israel. Brent crude, the international benchmark, fell after jumping briefly to over $90 a barrel after reports emerged of an attack. Gold briefly came close to a record high before settling below $2,400 an ounce. There are concerns a worsening conflict in the Middle East could disrupt oil supplies. Investors have been closely watching Israel’s reaction to Iran's direct drone and missile attack last weekend. Oil prices had jumped by as much as 3.5% initially. But Brent then fell back to roughly $87 a barrel after Iranian state media claimed that there was "no damage" in Isfahan province where there had been reports of explosions. Sharp and sustained rises in oil prices risk fuelling inflation. Countries are heavily reliant on the commodity, which is used to produce fuels such as petrol and diesel. Fuel and energy prices have been a major driver behind the higher cost of living worldwide in the past couple of years. Randeep Somel, fund manager at M&G Investment Management, told the BBC's Today programme: "The concern for markets would mainly be the inflationary one, that this would actually add to inflation." While the pace of inflation has been slowing, in the UK it is still above the Bank of England's 2% target and some economists have forecast that a cut to interest rates may not happen until summer or later on in the year. "In the UK, the inflation rates is still around 3.2% - still someway off the target – and it is becoming a bit of a concern for policy makers," said Mr Somel. "It is good to see that this hasn’t escalated any further and that hopefully the disruption to markets is short-lived.” The price of Brent is far below the heights reached after Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022 when a number of major economies imposed sanctions on the oil-producing nation. Oil hit $125 a barrel in the weeks that followed, leading to a sustained period of higher household energy bills. The gold price often rises at times of uncertainty as it is seen as a safe investment. The heightened tension in the Middle East has led to concerns about whether shipping through the Strait of Hormuz between Oman and Iran will be affected. It is a crucial shipping route, as about 20% of the world's total oil supply passes through it. Members of the oil producers' cartel Opec - Saudi Arabia, Iran, the UAE, Kuwait and Iraq - send most of the oil they export through the strait. Iran is the seventh largest oil producer in the world, according to the US Energy Information Administration, and the third-largest member of Opec. The initial spike in oil prices was "a knee-jerk reaction to fears of a renewed escalation of warfare between Israel and Iran," said energy market expert Vandana Hari of Vanda Insights. "What the latest events underscore is the heightened fragility and volatility in the Mid East situation," she added. Stock markets were mixed as investors reacted to the latest events. In the US, the Dow Jones Industrial Average was roughly 0.5% higher in mid-day trade, while the S&P 500 fell 0.5% and the Nasdaq was down 1.3%. In the UK, the FTSE 100 share index closed 0.2% higher while the FTSE 250 ended down 0.3%. In Asia, Japan's Nikkei 225 index fell 2.7%, while Hong Kong's Hang Seng dropped 0.9%. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. The niece and grand-niece of Qasem Soleimani are in the custody of US Immigration and Customs Enforcement, officials said. The stakes could rise further if the weapons system officer of the downed F15 Eagle plane is captured by Iran. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Oil leaking from a capsized barge off the coast of Tobago has spread hundreds of miles to reach the Caribbean island of Bonaire. Officials on Bonaire, which is located 50 miles (80km) north of the Venezuelan coast, said the oil posed a "serious threat to both humans and nature". The island is the latest to have been contaminated with oil from the barge which ran aground earlier this month. It is still unclear who owns the barge and what may have caused it to sink. The authorities on Bonaire, which is a special municipality of the Netherlands, said the island's east coast, including Sorobon, Lac and Lagun, had been polluted. They also warned that the island's mangrove, fish and coral ecosystems were at risk. The oil leak was first spotted by the Trinidad and Tobago Coast Guard on 7 February. They traced it to a barge which had become lodged on a reef about 150m (500 ft) off Tobago's southern coast. There was no crew on board the barge and the Coast Guard said it had not received any distress signals. They did, however, spot the name "Gulfstream" painted on the side of the vessel. Trinidad and Tobago authorities said the barge had originated in Panama and had been towed by a tugboat. They said it appeared "to have been bound for Guyana". An investigation conducted by online investigative journalism site Bellingcat suggests the barge stopped in late January in Pozuelos Bay, a Venezuelan port used by the state-owned PdVSA oil company. According to Bellingcat, the barge may have started leaking oil as early as 3 February. The whereabouts of the boat which had tugged the barge are not currently known. The prime minister of Trinidad and Tobago declared a national emergency on 11 February. The country's Office of Disaster Preparedness and Management has been trying to contain the spillage but oil has been continuing to leak from the barge. The Trinidad and Tobago Weather Center said satellite images suggested the oil slick had spread into the marine area of Grenada as early as 14 February. From there, it appears to have been carried further westward to Bonaire. Officials on Bonaire are particularly concerned for the mangroves, which are among the best preserved in the Caribbean. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The helmet and three golden bracelets were stolen in January 2025, but one bracelet is yet to be found. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Trinidad and Tobago is considering declaring a national emergency over a huge oil spill from a ship that ran aground and overturned this week. At least 15km (nine miles) of Tobago's south-western coast have been affected, including some of the Caribbean island's pristine beaches. Some 1,000 volunteers have now joined government staff to clean up the spill. Divers have been trying to isolate the leak from the vessel, which was abandoned by its crew. Farley Augustine, the chief secretary of the island of Tobago, on Saturday said the government may designate the accident a Level 3 disaster, the highest. "Everything indicates that we are going in that direction," he was quoted as saying by the AFP news agency. The spill is currently Level 2, meaning the Office of Disaster Preparedness and Management believes that the country can deal with the spill. A national emergency is declared when local resources become "overwhelmed" and international assistance is needed. The ship - identified only as The Gulfstream - capsized last Wednesday off the coast of the Cove Eco-Industrial Estate. The incident happened just days before Trinidad and Tobago's carnival celebrations, which are an important source of income for its economy. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Angola has announced it is leaving the oil producers' organisation Opec over a dispute on output quotas. It follows last month's decision by the 13-member cartel and 10 allied nations to further slash oil production in 2024 to prop up volatile global prices. Angola currently produces about 1.1 million barrels per day, of the 30 million from the whole of Opec. Oil prices fell on the news, with Brent prices down over $1 to $78.5 a barrel by 12:50 GMT, Reuters reports. Angola's decision to withdraw from Opec came at Thursday's cabinet meeting. "We feel that at this moment Angola gains nothing by remaining in the organisation and, in defence of its interests, it decided to leave," Mineral Resources and Petroleum Minister Diamantino Azevedo said afterwards. "If we remained in Opec... Angola would be forced to cut production, and this goes against our policy of avoiding decline and respecting contracts." The minister added that the decision was not taken lightly. Angola and Nigeria are the two biggest oil exporters in sub-Saharan Africa. The AFP news agency reports that both countries have been unhappy at being asked to cut production at a time when they need to increase their foreign currency earnings. Angola has vast mineral and petroleum reserves, and its economy is among the fastest-growing in the world - but economic growth is highly uneven. Much of its oil wealth lies in its separate Cabinda province, where a decades-long separatist conflict simmers. Angola - which had been an Opec member for 16 years - is not the first country to leave the cartel. Ecuador, Indonesia and Qatar have all done the same. Opec is a grouping of oil producers which decides how much crude oil to sell on the world market, along with an expanded group called Opec+. Following Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, oil prices soared, hitting more than $120 a barrel in June last year. They fell back to a little above $70 a barrel in May this year - but have steadily risen since then as producers have tried to restrict output to support the market and after recent attacks on cargo vessels in the Red Sea. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Guyana and Venezuela have agreed to not "use force" to settle their dispute over the oil-rich region of Essequibo. After meeting Venezuela's President Nicolás Maduro, Guyanese President Irfaan Ali reaffirmed his commitment to peace in the region. But he said Guyana had the right to exploit their sovereign space. In a statement on X, Mr Maduro said it had been an "excellent day of dialogue". Mr Ali and Mr Maduro met in St Vincent and the Grenadines. In a three-page joint declaration, the countries agreed they would "not threaten or use force against one another in any circumstances" and would "continue dialogue". They also agreed to establish a joint commission of foreign ministers to address any matters arising over the contested area, and will meet again in Brazil to discuss Essequibo. Guyana says the issue will be resolved by the International Court of Justice, in The Hague, but Venezuela does not recognise the court's jurisdiction. Essequibo, a 160,000 sq-km jungle region, covers two-thirds of the Guyanese territory. It has been the subject of historic dispute between the two countries. Venezuela renewed its claim to the land following the discovery of oil in waters off Essequibo's coast in 2015. Mr Maduro previously said he would permit oil exploration in the contested territory but Guyana has already made deals with investors including oil and gas giants Exxon Mobil and Chevron. At the meeting, Mr Ali wore a bracelet showing a map of Guyana that includes Essequibo and reiterated the dispute must be solved through the ICJ. "Guyana is not the aggressor, Guyana is not seeking war, but Guyana reserves the right to work with all our partners to ensure the defence of our country," he said. Guyana's economy is booming largely due to offshore oil reserves, and its output is expected to triple to more than 1.2 million barrels per day by 2027. Venezuela, which contains the largest proven oil reserves in the world,  is in the midst of an economic crisis. This has been exacerbated by US sanctions imposed on its oil sales over the 2018 election of Mr Maduro. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The delivery of a million barrels of crude oil to a huge new refinery in Nigeria marks a major milestone in the process towards the country being able to produce fuel itself. For years, the oil-rich nation has not been able to refine the product. Importing refined oil has imposed some extra costs on the country. It is not clear when the mammoth Dangote refinery will start working but once running, it will be a big step in reaching energy self-sufficiency. The delivery of the first one million barrels of crude will be followed by five million more, which should then allow the plant to begin producing fuel. When fully operational, the $19bn (£15bn) facility in Nigeria's commercial hub, Lagos, is predicted to produce about 650,000 barrels per day. It will begin by making diesel, aviation fuel and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) before progressing to the production of petrol. Africa's richest man and president of the Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, said on Friday that the "focus over the coming months is to ramp up the refinery to its full capacity. "I look forward to the next significant milestone when we deliver the first batch of products to the Nigerian market." The company boasts it will be eventually able to provide for 100% of Nigeria's requirements of all refined product and also have surplus for export. The continent's largest economy, and one of its largest oil producers, has faced challenges in the supply of fuel, including foreign currency shortages, which have contributed to the frequent bouts of scarcity in the country. The cost of fuel has also become a major political issue. For years, the price had been subsidised - one of the few perks that many Nigerians had felt that they got from the state. But the subsidy cost the government a lot of money and this year the newly elected President, Bola Tinubu, removed it. This led to an increase in fuel prices of over 400%. Although labour unions have pressured the government to reverse its decision and alleviate the plight of most Nigerians, President Tinubu has maintained that it was a move that had long-term benefits. In November, the government said it had saved more than $1.8bn between June and September this year through the removal of the subsidy which will be channelled into social development projects. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Brazil says that it is deploying troops along its border with Venezuela after the Venezuelan government announced plans to incorporate an area controlled by Guyana into its territory. The oil-rich Essequibo region has been in dispute since the 19th Century when Guyana was a British colony. Venezuela renewed its land claims after offshore oil and gas reserves were discovered a few years ago. Tensions have been rising since a referendum on Sunday in Venezuela. More than 95% of voters are said to have supported the government's claim to Essequibo. Venezuela's leader Nicolás Maduro has since asked the state oil company to issue extraction licenses there and proposed that the National Assembly pass a bill to make the area part of Venezuela. The measures are cause for concern across the region. While Guyana has its troops on high alert, the Brazilian army has said that it is moving more soldiers to the border city of Boa Vista, the capital of Roraima state, as well as bringing in more armed vehicles. However any military incursion by Venezuela will be logistically challenging, Venezuelan soldiers would need to pass through Brazilian territory if they enter Essequibo because of challenging terrain elsewhere. According to AFP news agency, Brazil's army has said it is reinforcing its presence in the region as part of efforts to "guarantee the inviolability of the territory". A Guyanese army helicopter with seven people on board was reported missing near the Venezuelan border on Wednesday. However, the Guyanese Chief of Staff, Omar Khan, said there was "no information suggesting Venezuela was involved". Former Chelsea and Brazil midfielder Oscar retires after being diagnosed with a heart condition. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. Lawmakers in the Brazilian Congress view the law change as a reflection of pets' importance for their owners. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The United States is easing sanctions on Venezuela after the South American country's government and opposition agreed to have next year's election monitored by international observers. Sanctions will be eased on Venezuela's oil, gas and gold sectors. The next election in Venezuela has been scheduled for the second half of next year. Other sanctions imposed over the suppression of protests and the erosion of democracy remain in place. Washington has cautioned that the relaxation could be reversed if the electoral pact collapses. A new general license issued by the US treasury department authorised Venezuela, which had been under hefty sanctions since 2019, to produce and export oil to its chosen markets for the next six months. No time limit has been specified regarding the gold sector. The US warned Venezuela that they must "define a specific timeline and process for the expedited reinstatement of all candidates" by the end of November, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a statement. "All who want to run for president should be allowed the opportunity," he said, while calling for the release of "all wrongfully detained US nationals and Venezuelan political prisoners". The deal between the Venezuelan government and opposition was signed in Barbados on Tuesday. The agreement contains 12 points, which include promises to give all candidates access to public and private media, and to guarantee their free and safe movement throughout the country. The two sides have also agreed to update the voter registries, both inside and outside of the country, in order to ensure that the millions of Venezuelans who have emigrated can exercise their right to vote. But the two opposition and the government disagree on whether the agreement allows for the exclusion of opposition frontrunner María Corina Machado. The administration of Donald Trump imposed harsh sanctions on Venezuela to punish President Nicolás Maduro's government following his 2018 re-election, which the US has described as "illegitimate". But engagement between the two countries has improved under President Joe Biden. The US has a vested interest in the crisis in Venezuela easing as the dire state of the economy in the Andean country has driven more than seven million Venezuelans to emigrate, with many heading to the US. Venezuela also has the world's largest proven oil reserves and a scaling back of US sanctions on Venezuela's oil industry would benefit both countries economically. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President of Guyana Irfaan Ali has acknowledged "time is not on our side" as the South American country scrambles to make the most of its newfound oil wealth before it is too late. Over the past decade, Guyana has found huge amounts of oil and gas under its coastal waters. It now boasts reserves of about 11 billion barrels. That puts it in the top 20 in terms of its potential, on a par with countries such as Norway, Brazil and Algeria. The small country, which borders Venezuela, Brazil and Suriname in South America's north-east corner, currently boasts the fastest-growing economy in the world. But the discoveries come as the planet is trying to wean itself off fossil fuels to tackle climate change. Under the 2015 Paris Agreement, countries have vowed to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions to net zero by 2050. That means trying to cut down on oil use. Speaking to the BBC from the capital Georgetown, President Ali accepted that "time is not on our side" as it ramps up oil production, although he added that "to say we are racing against time is stretching it". And he said that even if the world met its net zero targets - something he doubted would happen - it would still need to rely heavily on fossil fuels, even after 2050. "As I speak to you, 53% of the world energy mix comes from oil and gas," Mr Ali said. "Even if we are to achieve the full commitment, you're looking at 35% to 40% of the world's energy mix still coming from oil and gas. So I don't see realistically an immediate medium-term end to oil and gas. "Even if we end up in a situation in 2070 and beyond - where, let's say, 40% of the energy mix comes from oil and gas - who determines who produces that 40%? These are questions that must be answered, because you can't just decide, 'You are out, you are in.' That is colonisation in a different way." The oil bonanza has transformed the Guyanese economy. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), it grew by 62% last year and is expected to add another 37% this year. That is the fastest growth rate anywhere in the world. And the wealth will potentially be shared between a relatively small number of people. Although Guyana is the size of Britain, it has a population of just 800,000 people. Most of it is rainforest. So the potential for per capita economic growth is huge. It has already gone up sharply. In 2015, when US oil major Exxon made its first discovery in Guyanese waters, gross domestic product per head was $11,000 (£9,380). This year, the IMF predicts it will top $60,000. Mr Ali said his country had no plans to join the Opec oil cartel and insisted his government would respect the contracts his predecessor signed with Exxon - even though some activists have criticised them as excessively generous. "The deal could have been better for Guyana," Mr Ali said. "Exxon had a good deal signed by the last government but, look, for us, the sanctity of contract is very important. We cannot go back and renegotiate." He said he was confident Guyana would win its territorial dispute with Venezuela, which claims two-thirds of Guyana's territory as its own. The dispute dates from the late 19th Century and a case is open before the International Court of Justice (ICJ). "We are very clear as to where our borders are and we are very confident about our case,"Mr Ali said. "There have already been two rulings and both were in favour of Guyana. We have actively encouraged Venezuela to participate in this process and to respect the outcome of the ICJ." Listen to Gideon Long's interview with President Ali in full on Business Daily on the BBC World Service. In his role as superintendent for the city of Des Moines, Ian Roberts oversees around 30,000 students. The incumbent president claimed victory in an election dominated by how to manage the country's vast oil reserves. The shooting incident comes as Guyanese voters head to the polls to elect a president and parliament. Cricket fanatic Alan Davis, from Newbury, travels cross-Atlantic to support his team in Guyana. The moths, which were previously unknown to science, have been named Carmenta brachyclados. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Joe Biden's administration has cancelled oil and gas leases in an Alaskan wildlife refuge. The interior department said revoking the drilling leases granted under ex-President Donald Trump would preserve 13 million acres of wilderness. But Mr Biden has not reversed his recent approval of an $8bn (£6.4bn) drilling project in the same region. The refuge is home to grizzly and polar bears, caribou and migratory birds - and an estimated 11bn barrels of oil. "We have a responsibility to protect this treasured region for all ages," Mr Biden, a Democrat, said in a statement on Wednesday. The decision would protect the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, he said, and honour "the culture, history, and enduring wisdom of Alaska Natives who have lived on these lands since time immemorial". The decision drew praise from some local tribespeople. The Arctic Village and Venetie Tribal governments said it was "a significant step towards true, meaningful protection of these lands that are so vital to the survival of our people now and into the future". But Republicans in the state said the move would harm Alaska Native groups who might have benefited economically from the drilling projects. Alaska Senator Dan Sullivan said at the US Capitol in Washington DC: "[Biden administration officials] love to talk about racial equity, racial justice, environmental justice, taking care of people of colour, but one big exception - the Indigenous people of Alaska. They screw them every time." Interior Secretary Deb Haaland argued the decision would protect a sensitive landscape that has been disproportionately affected by climate change, which is causing the Arctic to warm two-to-four times faster than the rest of the planet. But the lease cancellations could also carry political risks with US oil prices on the rise. One industry group said it was a setback for US energy independence as Russia profits from crude sales to fund its war in Ukraine. Kara Moriarty, head of the Alaska Oil and Gas Association, said: "What's ironic is that the Biden administration made this announcement the day after we saw more headlines about more Russian oil tankers traveling through the Bering Strait due to the war in Ukraine." Environmental groups welcomed the interior department's decision on Wednesday, even while Mr Biden's approval in March of the Willow project - dubbed a "carbon bomb" by critics - still rankled. The ConocoPhillips venture on Alaska's remote North Slope is expected to produce up to 180,000 barrels of oil a day and generate carbon dioxide emissions over the next 30 years equivalent to putting an additional two million cars on American roads. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
India's oil purchases from Russia have risen sharply, despite efforts by Ukraine and its allies to persuade countries around the world to distance themselves from Russia. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi met Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky at the recent G7 summit in Japan, but there was little detail of what was discussed. Western nations have cut Russian oil imports, and want to limit the amount of revenue Moscow earns from selling oil elsewhere. India's imports of Russian oil rose from a very low base at the start of 2022, increasing significantly throughout that year. Russian oil now accounts for nearly 20% of India's annual crude imports, up from just 2% in 2021, according to Indian state-controlled lender Bank of Baroda. India's purchases of seaborne crude from Russia have surpassed those by China. But China also gets nearly 800,000 barrels per day via a pipeline from Russia (in addition to imports by sea), although this is currently believed to be at or near full capacity. India started buying up Urals crude selling at a discount after the invasion of Ukraine last February. But in recent months, its oil refiners have also shown increasing interest in Russia's ESPO blend (East-Siberia Pacific Ocean). China's seaborne imports of Russian oil did increase in 2022, but then fell back before increasing again in the latter part of the year and early this year. Other countries have also taken advantage of discounted Russian crude. Turkey has bought significantly more, and so has Bulgaria, which has an exemption from the EU ban on Russian oil to allow it to continue to import it by sea. Pakistan has also struck a deal with Russia to purchase discounted oil. But these do not match the quantities imported by India and China. Following its invasion of Ukraine, Russia had fewer buyers, as some foreign governments and companies decided to shun its energy exports. At one point last year, Russian Urals crude was more than $30 a barrel cheaper than Brent crude (the global benchmark). In December 2022, G7 and EU leaders introduced a price cap plan aimed at limiting the revenue Russia earns from its oil exports, by trying to keep it below $60 a barrel. The EU also stopped imports of Russian oil by sea, and banned the import of refined oil products from Russia. Russia's oil exports in April have gone up by volume compared with a year ago, but its revenues have fallen by 27%, according to estimates by the International Energy Agency. After the invasion of Ukraine, the US voiced its unhappiness about India buying up Russian oil, although it has made clear that it accepts that India can source crude from Russia. There have also been concerns that refined fuels made from Russian oil are being sold on to the US and EU. There's been a significant increase in EU imports of diesel and jet fuel from India. The Indian government has defended its continuing purchases of crude from Russia, saying it has to source oil from where it is cheapest. India's refineries have faced a challenge trying to finance these purchases because sanctions on Russian banks are affecting payment transactions. Currently, Indian refiners are continuing to use dollars to buy Russian oil, but have been looking for alternative ways to pay. China's state-owned oil enterprises are increasingly using the Chinese renminbi, rather than the dollar, to finance oil purchases. China imports most of its gas via pipeline from Central Asia - Turkmenistan is currently the largest supplier. But a new pipeline, known as Power of Siberia, is due to be completed later this decade, and could make Russia China's biggest supplier of gas. Some reports say the two countries are close to agreeing to start construction next year. And China has signed new deals to transport Russian LNG (liquified natural gas) by sea via the Arctic. There was a noticeable increase in 2022 in Chinese LNG imports from Russia, taking them to record levels at one point. Nearly 50% of India's total gas requirements come from abroad, but very little is from Russia and most comes from the Gulf states. Chapal Bhaduri was Bengal’s biggest stage queen - until women arrived and the spotlight moved on. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. A new exhibition charts Bombay's passage through the centuries via paintings, photographs and prints. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Africa's biggest oil refinery has been opened in Nigeria, where it is hoped it will alleviate chronic fuel shortages. Nigeria is a major oil producer but most of this is sent abroad while it has to import the refined fuel used in vehicles and elsewhere. As a result the country often faces chronic fuel shortages. This is the problem that the $19bn (£15.2bn) refinery, owned by Africa's richest man, Aliko Dangote, is intended to tackle. "This is a game-changer for the Nigerian people," said President Muhammadu Buhari. The plant, which is not yet operational, has the capacity to produce about 650,000 barrels of petroleum products a day - more than enough to supply the country's needs. It also includes a power station, deep seaport and fertiliser plant. Nigeria's existing refineries have been completely shut down for over three years owing to oil theft, pipeline vandalism and structural neglect. If it works as planned, the plant could make a real change to the lives of Nigerians: "Every time there is fuel scarcity, I don't open my shop because there's no light [electricity] to work and I can't buy fuel for my generator," a young hairdresser from Lagos told the BBC. At Monday's launch, Mr Dangote outlined his hopes for the refinery: "Our first goal is to ramp up production of the various products to ensure that within this year, we are able to fully satisfy the nation's demand for quality products." However, it is not clear what impact the plant will have on the price of fuel in a country where retail prices are subsidised. The government says these subsidies will soon be removed - last year they took up at least a quarter of the national budget. Mr Dangote's plant in Lagos, which took nearly seven years to build, is said to be the world's largest single-train refinery, meaning the plant has one integrated distillery system which can produce a variety of products and petrochemicals, instead of having different units for each type of product. It is one of the last major projects to be inaugurated by President Buhari, who steps down next week after serving two terms in office. President Buhari will hand power to Bola Tinubu, who won disputed presidential elections in February. Oil and gas expert Henry Adigun told the BBC that Monday's launch was "more political than technical". Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Joe Biden has approved a major oil and gas drilling project in Alaska that faced strong opposition from environmental activists. The company behind the Willow project, ConocoPhillips, says it will create local investment and thousands of jobs. But the $8bn (£6.6bn) proposal faced a torrent of online activism in recent weeks, particularly among youth activists on TikTok. Opponents argued it should be halted over its climate and wildlife impacts. Located on Alaska's remote North Slope, it is the largest oil development in the region for decades and could produce up to 180,000 barrels of oil a day. According to US Bureau of Land Management estimates, that means it will generate up to 278 million metric tonnes of CO2e over its 30-year lifetime - the equivalent of adding two million cars to US roads every year. CO2e is a unit used to express the climate impact of all greenhouse gases together, as if they were all emitted as carbon dioxide. Monday's announcement will allow only three drill sites for the project instead of the five that were initially proposed - a compromise of sorts with anti-Willow activists. The approval also comes one day after the Biden administration imposed limits on oil and gas drilling in 16 million acres of Alaska and the Arctic Ocean. Environmentalists had argued Willow is inconsistent with President Biden's pledges to lead on climate action. More than one million letters of protest were written to the White House, and a Change.org petition calling for Willow to be halted drew more than three million signatures. "It's the wrong move and will be a disaster for wildlife, lands, communities, and our climate," environmental charity Sierra Club said on Monday. Sonny Ahk, a young Iñuipat activist from Alaska who campaigned against Willow, said the development would "lock in Arctic oil and gas extraction for another 30 years and catalyse future oil expansion in the Arctic". "While out-of-state executives take in record profits, local residents are left to contend with the detrimental impacts of being surrounded by massive drilling operations," he said. But all three lawmakers who represent Alaska in Congress, including one Democrat, pushed for the project's approval, touting it as a much-needed investment in the region's communities. They also argued it would help boost domestic energy production and lessen the country's reliance on foreign oil. "This was the right decision for Alaska and our nation," added ConocoPhillips CEO Ryan Lance on Monday. The US energy giant, which is already Alaska's largest crude oil producer, will enhance energy security, create good union jobs and provide benefits to Alaska Native communities, he said. Why has a president who has embraced strong action on climate change just approved a project dubbed a "carbon bomb"? It's because Willow is all about politics and the law - and not the environment. As a candidate Joe Biden promised "no more drilling on federal lands, period". But under pressure from the courts last year, he authorised plans to sell new drilling leases. Similar pressure from the courts could be at play again. The Biden administration is obviously aware that, from a purely climate perspective, the project can't really be justified. So they've tried to balance the approval with new bans on oil and gas leasing in the Arctic Ocean. But most environmentalists aren't buying that trade-off. Read more of McGrath's analysis The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Joe Biden has approved a major oil and gas drilling project in Alaska, intended to create local investment and thousands of jobs. But the Willow project has faced strong opposition from environmental activists over its climate and wildlife impacts. So why has Mr Biden, a president who has embraced strong action on climate change, approved a project dubbed a "carbon bomb"? It's because Willow is very much about politics and the law - and not just the environment. While running as a candidate back in 2020, Joe Biden promised that there would be "no more drilling on federal lands, period". That statement helped him garner support from green Democrats and climate campaigners, unsure about Biden's record on this issue. However, that campaign promise was broken last year when the administration announced plans to sell drilling leases under pressure from the courts. The White House will likely say that the role of the courts has also influenced the Willow decision. Oil company ConocoPhillips has held the lease since 1999 and would have had a strong case to appeal if their plans had been turned down. The Biden administration is obviously aware that from a purely climate perspective the project can't really be justified. The International Energy Agency has baldly stated that if the world wants to keep the rise in global temperatures under 1.5C, no new oil or gas drilling can go ahead. So, in an effort to limit the impact of the Willow approval, the White House has outlined new bans on oil and gas leasing in the Arctic Ocean and across Alaska. Most environmentalists aren't buying this trade-off. Willow is also a political decision. Mr Biden came to COP27 in Egypt and spoke of the big picture of climate change, threatening the "very life of the planet" - but he's also attuned to US bread-and-butter issues, especially the price of gas. Last year, in response to the Ukraine war, the White House authorised the release of millions of barrels from the US strategic petroleum reserve. This helped push down prices at the pump. With a presidential election in 18 months, Mr Biden is keen to reinforce his reputation as a moderate. Approving a reduced version of the original Willow plan will be sold as underlining the President's ability to forge compromises across political divides. Trade unions are backing the project, as are many native groups across Alaska who argue that Willow will boost jobs, local revenues and eventually oil supplies. Mr Biden's supporters argue that the cut-down project will see measures put in place to offset some of the extra emissions by planting trees, and the US target of curbing CO2 by 52% below 2005 levels would still be achieved. But the decision is fraught with political danger. Willow saw unprecedented opposition on social media, drawing over three million signatures on a petition against the project. In giving the greenlight to drilling, President Biden is now risking the support of many young people who voted for him in large numbers in 2020. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
US President Joe Biden said oil was needed "for at least another decade" during his State of the Union address on 7 February 2023. Astronauts on the Artemis II mission are on the third day of their journey around the far side of the Moon. At the annual 'Great Marshmallow Drop', more than 15,000 fluffy treats fell from a helicopter as kids raced to collect them. The crew will not land on the Moon on this current mission, though Nasa is preparing for a potential lunar landing by 2028. The crew on board the Artemis II spoke by video link, sharing messages for their families and experiences of the trip so far. The former prosecutor has a long-standing relationship with President Trump, having represented him in the criminal hush-money case. The US is aiming to be the first country to land humans on the lunar surface again by 2028 - so what's this mission for? Nasa astronauts conducted a number of different tests on board the Orion spacecraft - including practising manoeuvring the capsule. People on a commercial flight were treated to a rare view of the launch of Nasa's first crewed mission to the Moon in half a century. Science editor Rebecca Morelle watched from just three miles away as the most powerful rocket ever built blasted off from Florida. After delays and technical issues, the first crewed Moon mission in 50 years finally took off from Florida and is now in Earth's orbit. The BBC’s Ione Wells spoke with protesters and attendees outside the Supreme Court hearing on President Donald Trump’s executive order. From spacesuit fitting to final communications checks in the rocket, the crew prepared for liftoff to begin their 10-day mission. BBC’s Leyla Khodabakhshi speaks to locals and visitors in Florida ahead of the Artemis II mission blast off. The BBC’s Gary O'Donoghue spoke to one farmer in Alabama who, despite facing intense financial pressures, continues to support President Trump. The installation, titled "A throne fit for a king", was placed at the National Mall as a critique of President Trump's White House renovations. For the 10-day mission, Nasa scientists have developed a new "universal waste management system" - or space loo. Training for the Artemis II flight took place at the Johnson Space Center in Texas, and began soon after the crew was named in 2023. The Artemis II spacesuits are designed to protect the astronauts during launch and landing, as well as possible emergency scenarios. Large protests against the Trump administration took place in cities across the US, marking the third iteration of No Kings rallies. The airport is experiencing some of the longest delays in the US as TSA agents work without pay in a partial shutdown. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
President Joe Biden has imposed limits on oil and gas drilling in 16 million acres of Alaska and the Arctic Ocean. The announcement on Sunday came as his administration reportedly prepares to approve a major drilling project elsewhere in the region. The $8bn (£6.6bn) Willow project - if agreed - would be one of the biggest oil projects in the country in decades. Environmental groups and some Native residents fear the plan may have an impact on climate and damage wildlife. Opposition has grown rapidly in the last few weeks as the #stopwillow campaign gained traction on TikTok. President Biden is expected to make an announcement on the project on Monday. ConocoPhillips, the company behind the project, said it would create thousands of jobs and revenue for the remote area. Alaskan politicians, trade unions and some indigenous communities have also urged for it to be approved due to its potential economic benefits. On Sunday, the US Interior Department announced that nearly 3 million acres of the Beaufort Sea in the Arctic Ocean would be "indefinitely off limits" for oil and gas drilling. The move ensures that important habitat for whales, seals, polar bears and other wildlife "will be protected in perpetuity from extractive development″, the White House said in a statement. The government also said it would propose new limits to drilling in more than 13 million acres of "ecologically sensitive" land in Alaska's vast petroleum reserve. The reserve is a 23-million acre area on Alaska's North Slope that was set aside a century ago for future oil production. It is the largest area of undisturbed public land in the US and plays host to critical species including polar bears. "With these actions, President Biden continues to deliver on the most aggressive climate agenda in American history," the announcement said. One environmental group said the new limits did not go far enough and criticised the proposed Willow project, which would take place within the petroleum reserve. "Protecting one area of the Arctic so you can destroy another doesn't make sense, and it won't help the people and wildlife who will be upended by the Willow project," said Kristen Monsell, a senior lawyer at the Center for Biological Diversity. Michaela Stith, Climate Justice Director at Native Movement, an Alaskan based social justice charity, told the BBC that some communities would take direct action if the Willow project is approved. "We are living in a state monopolised by oil and gas," she said. "There are not many opportunities to do much else that's why you will see local support [for the proposal]. Our state has not been able to diversify our economy." President Biden is trying to balance his goals of making the US a net zero contributor to climate change by 2050 with pressure to increase fuel supply to keep prices low. The US Bureau of Land Management estimates that the Willow project would produce up to 278 million metric tons of CO2e  over its 30-year lifetime - the equivalent of adding more than two  million cars to roads in the US. CO2e is a unit used to express the climate impact of all greenhouse gases together as if they were all emitted as carbon dioxide. The decision on whether to approve the project will likely be one of Mr Biden's most significant climate decisions and comes as he prepares an expected bid for re-election in 2024. Additional reporting by Esme Stallard The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Saudi oil giant Aramco has announced a record profit of $161.1bn (£134bn) for 2022, helped by soaring energy prices and bigger volumes. It represents a 46.5% rise for the state-owned company, compared with last year. It is the latest energy firm to report record profits, after energy prices spiked following Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. America's ExxonMobil made $55.7bn, and Britain's Shell reported $39.9bn. Aramco also declared a dividend of $19.5bn for the October to December quarter of 2022, to be paid in the first quarter of this year. Most of that will go to the Saudi government, which owns nearly 95% of the shares in the company. Brent crude oil, the benchmark oil price, now trades at around $82 a barrel - though prices exceeded $120 a barrel last March, after Russia's invasion, and June. "Aramco rode the wave of high energy prices in 2022," said Robert Mogielnicki of the Arab Gulf States Institute in Washington. "It would have been difficult for Aramco not to perform strongly in 2022." In a statement on Sunday, Aramco said the company results were "underpinned by stronger crude oil prices, higher volumes sold and improved margins for refined products". Aramco's president and CEO Amin Nasser said: "Given that we anticipate oil and gas will remain essential for the foreseeable future, the risks of underinvestment in our industry are real - including contributing to higher energy prices." To address those challenges, he said, the company would not only focus on expanding oil, gas and chemicals production - but also invest in new lower-carbon technologies. Aramco - the world's second-most valuable company only behind America's Apple - is a major emitter of greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to climate change. Responding to Aramco's announcement, Amnesty International's secretary general Agnès Callamard said: "It is shocking for a company to make a profit of more than $161bn in a single year through the sale of fossil fuel - the single largest driver of the climate crisis." She added: "It is all the more shocking because this surplus was amassed during a global cost-of-living crisis and aided by the increase in energy prices resulting from Russia's war of aggression against Ukraine." Saudi Arabia is the largest producer in the oil cartel Opec (Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries). The Gulf kingdom has been condemned for a range of human rights abuses: its involvement in the conflict in neighbouring Yemen, the murder in 2018 of journalist Jamal Khashoggi, for jailing dissidents, and for the widespread use of capital punishment. In a separate development on Sunday, Iran said its oil exports had reached their highest level since the re-imposition of US sanctions in 2018. Oil Minister Javad Owji said exports increased by 83 million barrels in 2022 compared with the previous 12 months. In Iran, a new year starts in March. Analysts say the rise is due to greater shipments to Iranian allies China and Venezuela. Tehran's export revenues took a significant hit after then-US President Donald Trump pulled out of a landmark nuclear deal five years ago. The US sanctions, coupled with economic mismanagement and corruption, have meant that the Iranian economy has not had any substantive growth in the past decade. And by some measures, it is still 4-8% smaller than it was back in 2010. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The first minister said energy security should be a primary concern when making decisions on oil and gas projects. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A group of police officers and oilfield workers taken hostage during protests in Colombia's southern Caquetá province have been freed, President Petro says. Violence erupted on Thursday after residents blockaded an oil exploration company's compound. They were demanding its help to build roads in the area. Colombian leader Gustavo Petro had called for the 79 officers and nine Emerald Energy employees to be let go. A police officer and a civilian have already been killed during the unrest. Announcing the release of the hostages, who were filmed sitting in a crowded room on the floor, Mr Petro called on investigators to find those responsible for the two deaths. Interior Minster Alfonso Prada said earlier on Friday that they were killed by gunfire. Many of the protesters are rural and indigenous people who want Emerald Energy to build new road infrastructure around the San Vicente del Caguan area. The oil company did not respond when approached by Reuters news agency for comment. Colombian police paid tribute on Twitter to the police officer killed in the clash, who they named as Ricardo Monroy. "Today we are more united than ever," they wrote, adding that Mr Monroy had "offered his life in the line of duty". Colombia's human rights ombudsman Carlos Camargo - who was on site to mediate - said he had spoken to protesters and stopped them from throwing petrol bombs at the oil facility. Protests in areas near energy and mining operations in Colombia are common as communities demand companies build infrastructure, including roads and schools. Police said a dissident subgroup of Farc rebels which rejected the 2016 peace deal were present in the region and may have been provoking the unrest. Separately, Mr Petro on Thursday unexpectedly published a statement on Twitter asking the country's prosecutor general to conduct a criminal investigation into allegations of corruption involving his own son and brother. The statement did not specify the accusations against his eldest son, Nicolas Petro Burgos, and brother, Juan Fernando Petro Urrego, but it did say: "my government will not give out benefits to criminals in exchange for bribes". The final six nations have qualified for the 2026 World Cup - this is your essential lowdown on the expanded edition of the tournament. The Hercules military transport plane crashed minutes after take-off near Colombia's southern border with Peru. Colombia's defence minister says it was a "tragic accident" but the cause is not yet clear. Colombia has become a tech hub for Latin America, but attracting investors is a challenge. Colombia's leader says he urged Trump to work with him to target drug kingpins. Trump says they "got along very well". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Journalists have been forced to temporarily take down articles critical of powerful oil lobbyists due to the exploitation of US copyright law, according to a new report. At least five such articles have been subject to fake copyright claims, including one by the respected South African newspaper Mail & Guardian, according to the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project (OCCRP). The claims - which falsely assert ownership of the stories - have been made by mystery individuals under the US Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), a law meant to protect copyright holders. Just last month, three separate false copyright claims were made against Diario Rombe, an investigative news outlet that focusses on Equatorial Guinea. The articles under attack are about the president of Equatorial Guinea's son, Gabriel Mbaga Obiang Lima, and his close associate, Cameroonian businessman and lawyer NJ Ayuk. The OCCRP claimed in a report published on Wednesday that the DMCA process was often abused by "unknown parties" who create backdated fake articles to target critical news reports. Under the US law, any online author saying that their content has been stolen can seek to have what they claim is the infringing material "taken down" by triggering a formal legal process through web servers who host the material. The process differs depending on the server provider, but it can mean content is removed from the web for weeks while the genuine author proves their credentials. The OCCRP is yet to discover who is behind the attacks, however all the stories were critical of NJ Ayuk. NJ Ayuk, also known as Njock Ayuk Eyong, is the CEO of African law firm Centurion Law Group and the founder of the African Energy Chamber (AEC). He is also an outspoken advocate of the oil industry in Africa. Mr Ayuk has a close relationship with the other subject of two of the stories, Gabriel Mbaga Obiang Lima. Mr Obiang Lima was Equatorial Guinea's Minister of Mines and Hydrocarbons until a recent cabinet reshuffle. Mr Ayuk has issued press releases from Centurion Law Group and the AEC which publicly attack journalists criticising his oil lobbying activities and questioning his close relationship with Mr Obiang Lima. The first known false copyright claim to target reports on Mr Ayuk was made in 2019, following the publication of an article in South Africa's Mail & Guardian (M&G) titled Fraudster named in SA's oil deal. The story examined Mr Ayuk's involvement in an oil deal between South Africa and South Sudan worth hundreds of millions of dollars. It revealed that Mr Ayuk was convicted of fraud in the US in 2007 after pleading guilty to illegally using the stationery and signature stamp of a congressman to obtain visas for fellow Cameroonians. After the story was published, the M&G's web server Linode was contacted by an "Ian Simpson", claiming he was the original author of the piece. Linode took down the news outlet's entire website for a morning in response to the complaint. M&G investigated and found that the US address given did not exist and that there were no other traces online of this alleged author. M&G concluded that "Simpson" and his article were fakes but Linode forced the newspaper to take down its article about Mr Ayuk before it would restore the rest of the M&G website. Writing about the takedown, the M&G called this a "censorship attack". Last November during the UN's climate summit COP27, UK-based Climate Home News published an article about Mr Ayuk launching a partnership with two UN agencies called UN gives platform to convicted fraudster lobbying for African gas. The article highlighted the role of the African Energy Chamber in the UN's flagship Team Energy Africa private investments initiative and referenced Mr Ayuk's US fraud conviction. The UN cancelled the initiative following the publication. Two weeks later, Climate Home News' server AWS received copyright claims on both articles from "Thomas L Pierce" and "Marcus A Webre". The OCCRP was unable to trace the complainants, and emails to their provided addresses went unanswered. AWS told Climate Home that it might have to take action against Climate Home News unless it could confirm that the matter had been successfully addressed. Climate Home editor Megan Darby removed the articles while addressing the false claims with AWS. It took several weeks before Climate Home was able to reinstate the articles. Ms Darby told the OCCRP: "These bogus allegations look like a devious tactic to suppress independent journalism." Earlier this year, unknown parties filed three complaints against independent investigative outlet Diario Rombe over articles authored by them. Two were with its server Cloudflare and one with Google. They targeted two 2021 articles published in collaboration with OCCRP which were critical of Mr Ayuk and his relationship with Mr Obiang Lima. All three complaints appear to have originated from South Africa. The OCCRP said that it could not establish whether the purported claimants "Lavino Siqueira" and "Mark E Bailey" were real people, and again, emails to their addresses went unanswered. Google removed the second article from its search results. It reinstated the piece only after Diario Rombe filed a so-called "counter-notice". Diario Rombe editor Delfin Mocache Massoko said: "These copyright complaints for a small outlet without funds like Diario Rombe do huge damage to our work. I believe that the author has a single mission, to eliminate all negative information about Mr Ayuk and Lima from the internet." When contacted by the BBC, Mr Ayuk strongly denied corruption allegations and said he, the AEC and Centurion Law Group denied the allegations made by the OCCRP including in relation to fake copyright claims. Gabriel Mgeba Obiang Lima did not respond to requests for comment at time of publication. The OCCRP contacted AWS, Google and Cloudflare for comment on the bogus copyright complaints, but they did not respond. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
An ageing pipeline crossing part of the Great Lakes has led to a standoff between the US state of Michigan and Canada. The outcome of the battle over Line 5, which delivers energy to the US Midwest and central Canada, will be viewed by many as a bellwether of how North America will balance its energy future with its environmental commitments. The most contentious part of the Line 5 pipeline - which runs from Superior, Wisconsin, by way of Michigan to Sarnia, Canada - sits on the bed of the Straits of Mackinac. The narrow waterway connects Lake Michigan and Lake Huron - two of the world's largest lakes. In 2018, an anchor from a shipping freighter passing through the Straits struck and damaged the pipe, bringing to the fore longstanding concerns from environmental campaigners and others over possible spills. Then-Michigan Governor Rick Snyder made an agreement with Canadian pipeline operator Enbridge to protect the pipeline from further damage and keep it operational. Enbridge, one of the world's largest pipeline firms, would build a $500m (£411m) tunnel bored through rock below the lakebed in the Straits, to enclose Line 5. The agreement was meant to end uncertainty about the controversial 69-year-old oil and natural gas pipeline's safety. But two years later, Governor Gretchen Whitmer, Mr Snyder's Democratic successor and a long-time opponent of Line 5, ordered the company to cease operations in the Straits, effectively shutting Line 5 down. She called it an "unreasonable risk" to the Great Lakes, one of the largest sources of fresh water in the world and an economic engine for the region. Now, there is no end in sight for the ongoing battle over the fate of the project, the pipeline and the need to protect the Great Lakes. Permits and a safety and environmental impact assessment for the project - which would take years to complete - are still pending. And Enbridge has ignored Gov Whitmer's order to halt, setting things up for a lengthy and contentious court battle. Enbridge says the pipeline, which earns it an estimated $1.6-$2m daily, has been operating safely and reliably in the Straits for decades. In turn, Michigan has sued the company to enforce the Line 5 shutdown. The case is currently before a US federal court. Calgary-based Enbridge has Canada in its corner. Line 5 is part of the Lakehead System, a network of pipelines that brings oil and natural gas from western Canada to homes and refineries in Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Ontario and Quebec. It provides the majority of the Canadian provinces of Ontario and Quebec's crude oil and, fearing its closure, Ottawa - which has warned a shutdown would have a profound impact on both sides of the border, including on jobs and supply chains - backed Enbridge's legal case. It invoked the 1977 Transit Pipelines Treaty between the two countries. The treaty ensures that crude oil will flow between the US and Canada so long as the pipelines involved are compliant with various rules and regulations. It forces an arbitration process in the event of a dispute. But Michigan has the support of 12 federally recognised Anishinaabe tribes in the state, who say Line 5 poses too high a risk to the Great Lakes. The waters are also of spiritual importance for the tribes, who argue they are protected by their constitutional treaty rights. "The Straits of Mackinac are the centre of our creation story," explains the President of the Bay Mills Indian Community, Whitney Gravelle. She said they have a right to hunt, fish and gather in the territory "in perpetuity - and Line 5 is a ticking time bomb that could destroy our culture and lifeways". For many Michiganders it is a vital fuel supply - their main source of heating, delivering 55% of the state's propane needs, according to Enbridge. Dan Harrington is the owner of UP Propane, a major supplier of propane used for heating in Michigan's Upper Peninsula, north of the Straits of Mackinac. Over concerns the pipeline would be shut down, he arranged an alternative supply route so as not to let down his 17,000 customers. "We actually put in a rail terminal where we aren't getting any, or very little, of our propane from Line 5," says Harrington. But if it were shut down, "the Midwest would be in a world of hurt",  he said. While Enbridge says the Great Lakes tunnel project would "virtually eliminate" the chance of a spill, others disagree. An independent pipeline safety expert hired by the Bay Mills Indian Community, Richard Kuprewicz, says that transporting oil and gas "through an enclosed tunnel enhances the risk of a catastrophic explosion" - a risk he called low but not "negligible". If there was a pipeline break, even in the best-case scenario the outcome would be disastrous, according to Great Lakes oceanographer Dave Schwab. Line 5 carries almost half-a-million barrels of oil and natural gas daily. "So even if the oil flow was stopped instantly, which is impossible, the pipe would still contain a minimum of 5,000 barrels of oil," he said. A "best-case scenario" could see 700km (435 miles) of shoreline along Lake Huron and Lake Michigan affected, he said, and "in the worst case of a 25,000 barrel spill, over 1,000km of shoreline in both Canada and America would be affected". According to an independent risk analysis commissioned by Michigan, an oil spill could cost almost $2bn in damages. Given the diversity of habitats in and around the Straits - home to many insects, fish and migratory birds - it may "represent a point of no return for species loss". Michigan has been looking at options to replace Line 5 that include adding pumping stations to increase the flow of other Enbridge pipelines, or transporting the product via trucks and railroads. Those options, Canada's Minister for Natural Resources Jonathan Wilkinson told the BBC, were "less safe, less efficient, and higher emitting". Pipelines are generally regarded as a safe way to transport fuel and a better alternative to tanker trucks or freight trains. Supporters argue Line 5 is critical to the state for the millions of dollars Enbridge pays in property, corporate and other tax revenues annually, and is vital to its energy needs. Enbridge says there's no viable alternative to the tunnel project and that they intend to continue operating Line 5 at the Straits until the tunnel's completion. "The tunnel makes what has always been a safe pipeline even safer, ensuring energy access and reliability, and supporting jobs and the economy throughout the Great Lakes Region," it told the BBC in an emailed statement. They said they had also taken additional measures to regularly monitor its integrity and prevent future anchor strikes. Although Line 5 has spilled over one million gallons at other stretches of the pipeline over its lifetime, Enbridge states that the portion crossing Mackinac "remains in excellent condition and has never experienced a leak". So far, the Biden administration has kept at arm's length from the dispute, saying it will allow current environmental reviews of the tunnel project to play out. But Heather Exner-Pirot, a Senior Fellow at the Macdonald-Laurier Institute, a Canadian think-tank, believes Mr Biden is unlikely to allow Line 5 to close, especially in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which has had a significant impact on global energy supply and markets. "The energy crisis has caused the political tides to turn on this," said Ms Pirot. This will dismay both environmentalists and tribes, who assert that Line 5 is contrary to the Biden administration's green energy commitments. "Enbridge is speaking the universal language of economics," says Liz Kirkwood of FLOW, a non-profit conservation group, referring to the firm's warnings that a shutdown would have immediate consequences on the economies in the region. "What we're talking about is 20% of the planet's fresh surface water and the identity of an entire region. This is our home." Editor's note:  Leana Hosea was arrested in 2017 while working as a journalist covering a protest against Enbridge's Line 3 pipeline in Wisconsin. All criminal charges were dropped. The US has rescued the missing crew member of the US F-15 fighter jet which was shot down over southern Iran. The recovery of the airman follows separate search efforts by both the US and Iran. Iran rejected Donald Trump's ultimatum for a deal to re-open the Strait of Hormuz whose closure has led to a spike in oil prices. Residents say they support the administration's immigration agenda - but not its plans to build a detention centre in their backyard. Two men have been arrested over the shooting of a seven-month-old baby in Williamsburg. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Two Manx heating oil providers are placing restrictions on the amount of fuel they can deliver to customers due to UK shortages. Manx Petroleum and Ellan Vannin Fuels (EVF) said they would still deliver to homes but in smaller quantities. EVF said it believed the disruption would be temporary and apologised for any "inconvenience or concerns." Manx Petroleum said it expected supplies to "return to normal later this month". Restrictions will be in place until "until our next shipment arrives", they added. Both providers reassured customers deliveries would be charged on the same tariff as their original order. A spokesperson for EVF said it would "enable us to provide as many customers as possible with heating oil". "We apologise for inconvenience or concerns this may cause and we are working to resume normal deliveries as soon as possible," they added. Manx Petroleum have also committed to topping up any orders that have not been completed in full when further fuel orders arrive on the island. Why not follow BBC Isle of Man on Facebook and Twitter? You can also send story ideas to IsleofMan@bbc.co.uk Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Russia has banned oil sales to countries and companies that comply with a price cap agreed by Western nations earlier this month. The price cap - which was agreed by the G7 group of nations, Australia and the EU - came into force on 5 December. The cap prohibits countries from paying more than $60 (€56; £50) per barrel of Russian oil. Russia has now said its oil and oil products will not be sold to anyone imposing the price cap. The presidential decree said the ban would take effect for five months from 1 February until 1 July. The decree also said Russian President Vladimir Putin could give "special permission" to supply to countries that fall under the ban. The G7 group of major economies first put forward the idea of a price cap in September in order to stop Moscow from using oil revenue to finance the war in Ukraine. Although Western demand for Russian oil fell after the invasion, Russian revenue remained high due to a price spike and demand elsewhere, including from India and China. An EU-wide ban on Russian crude oil imported by sea is already in place, alongside similar pledges from the UK, the US, and others. The price cap aims to reduce Russian oil revenue further. It stops any Russian crude sold for more than $60 from being shipped using G7 and EU tankers, insurance companies and credit institutions. Many major global shipping and insurance companies are based within the G7. But earlier this month, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky called the price cap a "weak" idea that was not "serious" enough to damage the Russian economy. Russia's Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said on Tuesday that Russia's budget deficit could be wider than the planned 2% of GDP in 2023 - with the oil price cap squeezing export income. Oil is currently trading at around $80 a barrel - well down from the peaks of above $120, seen in March and June. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. As war drives up gas and fuel prices, Europeans turn again to the issue of energy independence. Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Several people have been killed in Boksburg, South Africa after an oil tanker exploded. Footage from the scene shows a huge fireball and people running away from the incident. DR Congo are back at the World Cup for the first time since 1974, with fans in Kinshasa celebrating the team's 1-0 play-off win over Jamaica. Lava from the Piton de la Fournaise volcano reached the Indian ocean for the first time in 19 years. Ramadan and Lent haven't overlapped since 1993 and couples like Olanrewaju and Kaosara in Nigeria are observing them together. Ethiopia unveils its first unmanned, 'smart' police station where citizens can report crimes on automated touch screens. Senegalese fans celebrate their team's victory at the Africa Cup of Nations. President Yoweri Museveni is in a commanding lead ahead of his main challenger, pop star-turned-politician Bobi Wine. Ongoing floods in the north-eastern provinces of South Africa has led to the closure of the world-famous Kruger National Park. According to reports, the boat had suffered motor failure before drifting to the edge of the dam. The Kenyan marathoner has all the running accolades he needs but is now focusing on new goals. Residents of the main city express shock after soldiers tried to overthrow the president. A growing number of women in South Africa are learning to use guns to protect themselves against gender-based violence. Fighters from the paramilitary Rapid Support Forces (RSF) have executed a number of unarmed people after capturing the Sudanese city of el-Fasher, new videos analysed by BBC Verify show. Raila Odinga was one of Kenya's most influential political figures despite five unsuccessful presidential bids. Crowds celebrated in the streets of the capital Antananarivo after an elite army unit said it had seized power from the president. A Gen Z leader in Madagascar says he has put his UK university scholarship on hold to help organise the protests. Asashi and Precious use dance as a form of escapism and expression in a show of resilience, community, and hope. Botswana's diamond-reliant economy is under strain - the main diamond company saw a 50% drop in sales last year. The battle for Kordofan, with a population of eight million, is the latest frontline in Sudan's civil war. Turkish authorities hope the youngster, named Zeytin, can soon be returned to his native Nigeria. Following the gold-rush in Lomera, the village population has increased from 1,500 to 12,000 in less than a year. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky has criticised a price cap set by his Western allies on Russian oil exports, calling it "weak". The cap, approved on Friday, is aimed at stopping countries paying more than $60 (£48) for a barrel of seaborne Russian crude oil. Russia says it will not accept a cap on prices for its oil exports. The measure - due to come into force on Monday - intensifies Western pressure on Russia over the invasion. But Mr Zelensky called the price cap "a weak position" and not "serious" enough to damage to the Russian economy. "Russia has already caused huge losses to all countries of the world by deliberately destabilising the energy market," he said in his nightly address. It is "only a matter of time when stronger tools will have to be used", he added. The price cap was put forward in September by the G7 group of industrialised nations (the US, Canada, the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the EU) in a bid to hit Moscow's ability to finance the war in Ukraine. In a joint statement, the G7, the EU and Australia said the decision was taken to "prevent Russia from profiting from its war of aggression against Ukraine". On Saturday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that Moscow had prepared for the move but would "not accept" the cap. Though the measures will most certainly be felt by Russia, the blow will be partially softened by its move to sell its oil to other markets such as India and China - which are currently the largest single buyers of Russian crude oil. The agreement of a price cap comes just days before an EU-wide ban on Russian crude oil imported by sea comes into force, also on 5 December. The price cap - which is meant to affect oil exports worldwide - is meant to complement that. Countries which sign up to the G7-led policy will only be permitted to purchase oil and petroleum products transported via sea that are sold at or below the price cap. Ukraine's Western allies also plan to deny insurance to tankers delivering Russian oil to countries that do not stick to the price cap. This will make it hard for Russia to sell oil above that price. Before the war, in 2021, more than half of Russia's oil exports went to Europe, according to the International Energy Association. Germany was the largest importer, followed by the Netherlands and Poland. But since the war, EU countries have been desperately trying to decrease their dependency. The US has already banned Russian crude oil, while the UK plans to phase it out by the end of the year. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A cap on the price of Russian oil will restrict Russia's revenues for its "illegal war in Ukraine", the US says. The cap, approved by Western allies on Friday, is aimed at stopping countries paying more than $60 (£48) for a barrel of seaborne Russian crude oil. The measure - due to come into force on Monday - intensifies Western pressure on Russia over the invasion. Ukraine said the Western-proposed cap should be halved. Russia said it would not supply to countries enforcing it. The price cap was put forward in September by the G7 group of industrialised nations (the US, Canada, the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the EU) in a bid to hit Moscow's ability to finance the war in Ukraine. In a joint statement, the G7, the European Union and Australia said the decision was taken to "prevent Russia from profiting from its war of aggression against Ukraine". US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said the price cap would also further constrain Russian President Vladimir Putin's finances and "limit the revenues he's using to fund his brutal invasion", while avoiding disrupting global supplies which could send petrol prices soaring around the world. "With Russia's economy already contracting and its budget increasingly stretched thin, the price cap will immediately cut into Putin's most important source of revenue," she said in a statement. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Russia would "not accept" the price cap, adding it was analysing the move, Russian news agencies reported. UK Chancellor Jeremy Hunt said the UK would not waver in its support for Ukraine and would continue to look for new ways to "clamp down on Putin's funding streams". The agreement of a price cap comes just days before an EU-wide ban on Russian crude oil imported by sea comes into force, also on 5 December. The price cap - which is meant to affect oil exports worldwide - is meant to complement that. Countries which sign up to the G7-led policy will only be permitted to purchase oil and petroleum products transported via sea that are sold at or below the price cap. Ukraine's Western allies also plan to deny insurance to tankers delivering Russian oil to countries that do not stick to the price cap. This will make it hard for Russia to sell oil above that price. Senior Russian politician Leonid Slutsky told Tass news agency the EU was jeopardising its own energy security with the cap. Though the measures will most certainly be felt by Russia, the blow will be partially softened by its move to sell its oil to other markets such as India and China - which are currently the largest single buyers of Russian crude oil. Before the war, in 2021, more than half of Russia's oil exports went to Europe, according to the International Energy Association. Germany was the largest importer, followed by the Netherlands and Poland. But since the war, EU countries have been desperately trying to decrease their dependency. The US has already banned Russian crude oil, while the UK plans to phase it out by the end of the year. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. More than 250 Kenyans have gone to fight for Russia in Ukraine, mostly willingly, Kenya's foreign minister says. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The G7 group and its allies have officially approved a cap on the price of Russian oil. In a joint statement, the G7 and Australia said the price cap would come into force on 5 December or "very soon thereafter". It comes after the European Union agreed on the price cap after persuading Poland to back it. The plan, which stops countries paying more than $60 (€57; £48) a barrel, needed the agreement of all EU states. Poland announced its support on Friday after being reassured the cap would be kept at 5% lower than the market rate. A price cap was put forward by the G7 group of nations in September and aims to stop Moscow profiting from oil exports while avoiding a price spike. It had been reported that the EU wanted to set the cap at $65-70 but this was rejected by Poland, Lithuania and Estonia as too high. Warsaw had wanted the value to be as low as possible and had held out while it examined an adjustment mechanism which would keep the cap below the market rate as the price of oil changed. On Friday, Russian Urals crude was trading at $64 a barrel. The decision to impose a price cap was taken to "prevent Russia from profiting from its war of aggression against Ukraine," the joint statement read. It said the move aims to "support stability in global energy markets and to minimise negative economic spillovers of Russia's war of aggression, especially on low-and middle-income countries, who have felt the impacts of Putin's war disproportionately". The agreement of a price cap comes just days before an EU-wide ban on Russian crude oil imported by sea comes into force, also on 5 December. The price cap - which is meant to affect oil exports worldwide - is meant to complement that. Countries that sign up to the G7-led policy will only be permitted to purchase oil and petroleum products transported via sea that are sold at or below the price cap. Ukraine's western allies plan to deny insurance to tankers delivering Russian oil to countries that do not stick to the price cap. This will make it hard for Russia to sell oil above that price. G7 finance ministers said in September that their plan to limit the price of Russian crude would reduce Moscow's oil revenues and its ability to "fund its war of aggression". White House National Security Council spokesman John Kirby welcomed the agreement of an EU price cap on Friday, saying it would slow Russian President Vladimir Putin's "war machine". Russia denounced the scheme, saying it would not supply those countries which enforced a price cap. Before the war, in 2021, more than half of Russia's oil exports went to Europe, according to the International Energy Association. Germany was the largest importer, followed by the Netherlands and Poland. But since the war, EU countries have been desperately trying to decrease their dependency. The US has already banned Russian crude oil, while the UK plans to phase it out by the end of the year. Though the measures will most certainly be felt by Russia, the blow will be partially softened by its move to sell its oil to other markets such as India and China - who are currently the largest single buyers of Russian crude oil. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. As war drives up gas and fuel prices, Europeans turn again to the issue of energy independence. Hungary is going to the polls in nine days - after 16 years in power, can Viktor Orban be unseated? US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Prosecutors in Sweden say explosions on a gas pipeline between Russia and Europe were the result of sabotage. The explosions in the Baltic Sea targeted pipelines carrying natural gas from Russia to Europe. Russia denies any involvement. Before the announcement, Katya Adler travelled to the site, and was separately told by Nato chief Jens Stoltenberg that the west could go to war if Russia attacked infrastructure providing critical energy supplies. A Danish surveillance plane was flying round and round above our heads. To the back and the side of us, two Swedish and a Danish warship loomed. Suddenly, a Russian supply vessel appeared and anchored close by. We hovered anxiously by our boat radio, wondering if, after all these weeks of trying to arrange exclusive access with the relevant authorities to this point in the Baltic Sea, we would be instructed by one of those warships to get out of there. We were east of the Danish island Bornholm and south of the Swedish mainland, where two pipelines that stretch from Russia to Germany - Nord Stream 1 and 2 - passed beneath us. Three explosions ripped through the pipelines in late September with the force of a huge car bomb, according to intelligence experts. But no evidence has yet come to light about who was behind the attacks. However, on Friday a Swedish prosecutor said in a statement that traces of explosives had been found on several objects recovered from the site. The findings established the incident as "gross sabotage". The BBC had previously been given access to the underwater site. Aside from a Swedish newspaper journalist, no other media had been allowed. We found that the extent of the blast damage was far greater than had been thought. With us, we had Norwegian underwater drone expert Trond Larsen. He used sonar technology to examine details of the detonated pipes. Trond carefully lowered his two drones into the choppy waters, guiding them with a cleverly re-purposed gaming console. "Look at that, Katya," he jabbed excitedly at the laptop we had balanced in our narrow ship's cabin, which was live-streaming images captured by the drones. "Part of the pipe has shot four, five, maybe six metres straight upwards, at the point where it was blown apart. "Now we can see how the concrete has blasted off, showing jagged edges of the steel underneath - 45 millimetres of steel flattened, ripped straight out. The speed, the force, the explosion must have been huge." Trond's sonar imagery showed us how far, even crushingly heavy, thick concrete-coated pipe debris had been thrown across the ocean floor in the explosion. He was intrigued to spot track marks on top of some pipe casing.  A clue perhaps, he wondered, to how the explosives had been detonated, or laid? Or simply marks left by machinery when the pipes were first laid? The backdrop to this sabotage is Russia's war in Ukraine. Sweden and Denmark are conducting their own separate investigations. Intelligence services are famously wary and secretive - even between allies. The explosions on the pipes, which were not in use at the time, took place partly in what's known as the Swedish, and partly in the Danish, economic zones of the Baltic Sea. The west widely thinks the Kremlin was behind the attacks, a kind of message from Moscow - part of the hybrid - or non-conventional warfare - it's waging, including cyber attacks, away from the battlefield in Ukraine. Russia has blamed the sabotage on the west - vaguely on the US, and specifically on the UK Royal Navy, which promptly dismissed the allegation as an attempt by Russia to distract from its military failures. Later, we discovered the Russian offshore vessel we had spotted was part of a separate investigation Moscow had begun into the Baltic explosions. While many in the West see this as a cynical move by Moscow, Stockholm is worried that Russia might use this as a pretext to stage a more regular presence close to Swedish shores. The country is poised to join Nato. One thing has become clear from the explosions - the critical importance of Europe's energy infrastructure, bringing oil, gas and electricity from source to our homes and workplaces at this time of energy crisis, and the huge difficulty in protecting it. This is now another major front line in the current conflict. At a recent energy conference in Moscow, President Vladimir Putin warned ominously that energy infrastructure "anywhere and everywhere" was under threat. And it's not all about Nordstream. Europe has a complex web of underwater energy pipelines, many in the Baltic and the North Seas. Its waters are also home to thousands of miles of submarine electricity and internet cables, keeping us connected, and enabling trillions of dollars' worth of financial transactions a day. The system is vulnerable, and if it shatters, it has the potential to provoke major social unrest across the continent. This is a scenario the Kremlin might welcome. It has been investing in subsea capabilities for the past two decades, and Russia has the largest fleet of spy submarines in the world. Nato is scrambling to catch up. In the eye of this geopolitical storm, is Nato member Norway. Now the largest natural gas supplier to the UK and EU, and amidst concerns of sabotage and espionage, Norway's military has stepped up surveillance dramatically on, above and below, the North Sea. The BBC and a German TV crew were granted rare access to a Norwegian patrol of the many oil and gas rigs in its territorial waters. We spent just over two days on board the Jarl, a towering naval coast guard vessel. Massive floor-to-ceiling windows on the bridge afforded a spectacular view of the oil and gas platforms, glimmering in the rare sunshine. It was like a metallic city seascape on stilts. The ship is equipped to be steered from four main vantage points up there. And at night, the Jarl, like other Norwegian military vessels now patrolling the area, sails in velvety darkness. Lights are turned out on the bridge. The crew likes to keep their course unpredictable, they told me, and sometimes switches off the Automatic Identification System (AIS) to be able to move around undetected. The Commander-in-Chief of the Royal Norwegian Navy, Rune Andersen, told me Norway took its responsibility as a major energy supplier seriously. Energy security was key for Europe, he said. That is why the navy was bolstering its presence at sea, to make people feel safer and to act as a deterrent. "Honestly I was not expecting to be doing this - patrolling energy installations for security," 20-year-old Alexander told me. He is one of the many military conscripts I met on board the Jarl. "The situation is a bit tense," continued Alexander. "Some people in my family aren't very comfortable about me doing this job. But there's no threat to me. I feel safe. I feel our job is more important now." Norway's navy keeps in regular contact with the private companies running the oil and gas rigs. Along with two officers, I got dressed into a snug orange and black thermal suit, gloves and helmet, before being lowered off the side of the Jarl inside a jet-propelled dinghy, and finally dropped, with a mighty splash, into the North Sea. Before the pipeline attack, Norway's navy and coast guard used these speed boats for search and rescue missions and fishery inspections. Now, they are being called on to investigate the increasing number of drone sightings called in by the oil and gas companies out here. Norway's prime minister, Jonas Gahr Støre describes this as the tensest security situation the country has faced in decades. The oil and gas companies are definitely jumpy. One of the naval officers confided that some of the "drone" sightings turn out to be seagulls. But certainly not all of them. In Norway itself, Russian citizens have been banned from flying drones after a number of Russians suspected of gathering intelligence on energy infrastructure were arrested in separate incidents. These included the son of a close friend of Vladmir Putin, and a Brazilian academic now believed to have been an undercover Russian agent. The first of this latest round of arrests was in early October in Norway's wild and beautiful north, where the country comes face-to-face with Russia. A 50-year-old man was apprehended at the Storskog crossing point - now the only land border to Europe open for Russian tourists - as he was leaving the country. He was reportedly in possession of two Russian and one Israeli passports, two drones and a series of partially encrypted photos and videos. Moscow dismissed that arrest, and the other spying allegations against Russians in Norway, as "hysteria". We travelled to the crossing point, on the nearly 200km-long Arctic border, to see if Norway's heightened anxiety over its neighbour is affecting the local community there. Solve Solheim, the head of border surveillance for the area, told us the case had taken them by surprise. The encrypted photos and videos, never mind drones and multiple passports, was all highly unusual - he said. He insists his country isn't overreacting. Norwegians had been perhaps a bit naive in the past regarding Russia, he told us. Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine, had served as a reality check. Local police have told residents to be more watchful, and to report drone sightings, or vehicles and individuals, that might appear suspicious. Living and working so close to Russia, and far away from the Norwegian capital Oslo, Solve Solheim says he's often felt on the front line. Now, he said, it seemed like a new Cold War had returned to Europe. Corner shop owner, Alf Hammer told us that he had never seen a Russian until the end of the Cold War. Now, they were part of the community up here, he said - married to Norwegians, with families. His wife, Natalja, was originally from St Petersburg. They smilingly wrapped their arms around one another to squeeze close enough to speak simultaneously into our  BBC radio mic. They were dismissive about what they saw as Russia-paranoia in southern Norway, especially in Oslo. There, people were more suspicious of Russians - Alf told us - because they weren't exposed to them. "Some idiot flies a drone and they make a big fuss about it," he said. "They don't all support the invasion of Ukraine, you know," Natalja said pointedly. "It's just at home in Russia, they can't say that." But Norway's defence minister, Bjørn Arild Gram, told me Norway had no choice but to remain vigilant. I met him while he was paying a visit to Norwegian Home Guard troops on watch at a key oil refinery - near the country's second city, Bergen. "We just don't know what might happen. We hear the sharpening rhetoric [from Moscow]. Energy is being weaponised in this conflict. We in Norway are now the biggest exporters of natural gas - so the infrastructure here is of huge strategic importance." Norway has earned vast sums of money from energy exports during the current crisis. But it is now beginning to feel the political heat. Millions of families across Europe are fretting about the coming winter. And governments in Germany and the UK want to know they really can rely on Norway's energy supply. The two countries, plus France, are providing naval support to Norway around its energy infrastructure. But Europe, once again, stands accused of having sleepwalked into an unnecessarily exposed position. Back in 2017, Rishi Sunak, now UK prime minister, was a not-very-prominent backbench MP. He wrote a paper warning that a large-scale attack on UK undersea infrastructure would be an "existential threat to national security". And he called for steps to be taken to mitigate risks and ensure "our maritime assets are sufficient to the task". Yet his defence secretary, Ben Wallace, recently announced that the UK's first multi-role ocean surveillance ship would only be operational sometime next year. France, meanwhile, only produced its seabed war strategy back in February - after Russia invaded Ukraine. In Brussels, at Nato HQ, I spoke to the head of the alliance - Norwegian, Jens Stoltenberg. He insisted Nato had been debating subsea safety for a long time. Could an attack on critical underwater infrastructure be considered an act of war, I asked. Yes, said Jens Stoltenberg. It could trigger Nato's collective defence clause - where an attack on one ally is considered an attack against all. Strong words Nato would rather not put into practice. Its aim remains to avoid direct military conflict with Russia - for obvious, potentially nuclear, reasons. But as it flounders militarily in Ukraine, the Kremlin is waging determined, non-conventional warfare closer to our homes. By threatening our gas supplies, Vladimir Putin aims to advance on two other fronts. Hoping to weaken and destabilise Europe's governments and, as a consequence, reduce western support for Kyiv. The ambulance departs for its 1,650-mile (2,655km) journey to Kyiv, Ukraine, on Easter Sunday. Videos have targeted Viktor Orbán's election rival, who could unseat him after 16 years in office. A Russian drone hit a busy spot in the southern Ukrainian town on Saturday morning, injuring another 21 people. Six civilians were killed and 40 others injured as Russia launched hundreds of drones and missiles. US President Trump has made clear his desire to change Cuba's leadership and has placed the country under an oil embargo. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
As politicians meet to discuss how to cut carbon emissions, descendants of Southern Africa's first inhabitants are raising concerns about an oil and gas exploration project. Religious leaders have also spoken out, with one saying the project is a sin, and calling on COP27 delegates to curtail the activities of fossil fuel companies. In the Southern African country of Botswana lies one of the largest inland deltas in the world, a landscape the UN has called "exceptional" and "rare" in its beauty. The Okavango Delta is an oasis in the heart of the Kalahari Desert. Its waterways and floodplains are home to some of the world's most endangered species of large mammals, like black rhinos. The plants, birds, fish, and animals that live here make up a particularly delicate ecosystem. It's so precious it has been designated a World Heritage Site. But there are fears it is under threat, because of fossil fuels. A Canadian company, Reconnaissance Energy Africa (ReconAfrica), believes there could be a wealth of oil and gas under the ground in the north of Botswana and neighbouring Namibia. It holds exploration licences for a 34,325sq km area straddling the border of the two countries. Three test wells have already been drilled in Namibia. "The project is a sin, and a serious one," the recently retired former Anglican Bishop of Namibia tells me. Luke Pato spent the last months of his time in Namibia campaigning against the project with a group of other religious leaders. As we sit in the garden of his home in Johannesburg, he tells me why. "Jesus said, 'I have come so that they may have life and have it abundantly.' He would never be on the side of anything that has the potential to destroy life, to destroy the environment in which people live. I have no doubt that Jesus would find a way of pulling the carpet under the feet of those who are still wanting to engage in the exploration of fossil fuels. "I would like drilling to stop, this company to pick up its machines and go." Bishop Pato is worried about the effect that the drilling in Namibia may have on underground water reservoirs that connect to the Okavango River. The river runs along Namibia's border north of the drilling sites, carrying water to the delta in neighbouring Botswana. ReconaAfrica says its exploration poses no pollution risk. Mwanyengwa Shapwanale, head of communications for ReconAfrica's Namibian subsidiary says the company is working with Namibia's government "to make sure that not only are we in line with what is expected from us to protect the environment, especially the water, but also to make sure that we go the extra mile." But Bishop Pato also has another concern: he thinks the exploration of African natural resources by a Canadian owned company amounts to a "new wave of colonialism''. He wants delegates at COP27 in Egypt to put forward "a resolution that would tell companies that are drilling outside of their own countries not to do so". Namibia's government rejected his criticism, telling the BBC it had a responsibility to develop the country's natural resources for the benefit of its people. "Reneging on that responsibility will be reckless, therefore as a sovereign democratic country, Namibia will sustainably explore and develop its natural resources," it said. It pointed out that Namibia's greenhouse gas emissions were "insignificant compared to that of the developed nations". Africa as a whole is responsible for less than 4% of the world's greenhouse emissions. The issue of whether African countries should continue to exploit fossil fuels is emerging as a point of division at this year's COP. A number say they should be free to exploit oil and gas deposits, in order to grow their economies and end energy poverty. But Bishop Pato remains unconvinced. "When there are potential cleaner sources of energy, why take a step back to fossil fuels?" he asks. In Botswana those concerns are echoed by descendants of Southern Africa's first inhabitants: the San. For millennia San communities inhabited what is now Southern Africa, living a hunter-gatherer lifestyle. Now there are thought to be around 90,000 left, concentrated in Botswana, Namibia, South Africa and Zambia. Key to their culture and belief systems is living in harmony with nature. San spirituality is inextricably linked to their relationship with the land, plants, and animals. "We don't want this project to happen," says Diphetogo Anita Lekgowa, a San activist from Botswana who is attending COP27 in Egypt as a campaigner for indigenous people's rights. "We are concerned for the environment and the protection of our natural resources, because once [drilling starts] there will be a whole load of change. The animals will migrate, and we fear losing our indigenous plants." Botswana's government declined several requests for interview, but the Minister of Mineral Resources, Lefoko Moagi, has previously stated that "the terms of the licence require ReconAfrica to preserve in as far as is possible the natural environment [and] minimise… damage to natural and biological resources." The government has also underlined that no drilling is currently planned in Botswana - the exploration will be carried out by non-invasive means. But Diphetogo Anita Lekgowa fears that if the presence of oil or gas is confirmed, drilling will eventually take place. Much like Bishop Pato she is worried about what that might bring. She is from the River San people, who believe the river that feeds the Okavango Delta was given to them by the gods, because it never dries. Growing up in the village of Khwai on the edge of the delta, the reverence her elders had for the river was woven into the fabric of their lives, she says. "Our parents would go to the river to dance, connecting with the gods, thanking the gods. Our culture, our way of life, our spirit connects with the river." If the river and Delta were harmed, Anita says, it "would destroy people emotionally". "Why is our government interested in oil when there are other things that can be done that can bring in revenue?" On the other side of the delta, in Botswana's north-west, lies another World Heritage Site - a series of large rock formations so holy to the San that they are known as "the mountains of the gods". The Tsodilo Hills are where the San believe the spirits of the ancestors reside, and it is through them that they connect with the Most High Being. The hills contain more than 4,500 rock paintings, some of which are thought to be more than 20,000 years old, detailing the history of the San people San activist Gakemotho Wallican Satau, who lives in the town of Shakawe, to the north of the hills, tells me that for the San the hills are "similar to Mecca for the Muslim people". Exploration is not allowed within a 20km buffer zone around the hills, but this has done little to allay Gakemotho Wallican Satau's fears. "How could I not worry?" he says. He particularly fears "tremors or earthquakes" that could lead to the destruction of the paintings. Across Southern Africa there are San people who argue that their communities have been dispossessed of their land. "We are already marginalised, we are poor, we have lost land, and now the Canadians are coming," Gakemotho Wallican Satau says. ReconAfrica's Ms Shapwanale stresses that the project is in its early stages in Botswana, and the company is keen to hear from affected communities. "We will continuously listen to the San community, we will continuously put in effort and go above and beyond to make sure that they're consulted. "We listen to them. And we hear, and we get advice on what is the right way to do things." But, she says, other nations have been trusted to explore for oil and gas, and it helped them to develop their economies. "If the Namibian and the Botswana governments invite us, I think it's only fair that these two nations should also be allowed to explore the natural resources for the benefit of the people, including the San community." Additional reporting Jessica Furst Cameroon's President Paul Biya, 93, won his eighth successive term last year in a disputed election. The fuel cost is nearly double what the government budgeted for putting pressure on stretched finances. People evicted to build Nigeria's capital accuse the government of failing to fulfill its promises to them. The Uganda Law Society criticises the deportation, saying it was illegal and "dehumanising". Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Uganda and Tanzania are set to begin work on a massive crude oil pipeline a year after the International Energy Agency warned that the world risked not meeting its climate goals if new fossil fuel projects were not stopped. The two East African countries say their priority is economic development. Juma Hamisi, not his real name, keeps his distance, careful not to trespass, as he points to mounds of rubble spread across an open field. They are signs that a thriving community once lived here in a mix of concrete and grass-thatched mud houses. At this time of year, the surrounding fertile land would normally be covered with a variety of sprouting crops - enough to feed the village, along with a surplus to sell at local markets. But it too lies bare. "We used to be the source of cassava and lemons, now there's scarcity. We can't even harvest the coconuts you see over there because it's not our land any more," Mr Hamisi says. Several signs bearing the name Tanzania Petroleum Development Cooperation, a state agency, now claim ownership of the area where villagers once lived, farmed and played. Some of the inhabitants of the Chongoleani peninsula, some 18km (11 miles) north of Tanzania's port city of Tanga, sold their land for compensation two years ago, after the government signed a deal to construct a pipeline to transport crude oil from the shores of Lake Albert in western Uganda. Eighty percent of the 1,440km- (895 mile) pipeline, whose construction will begin in a few months, will be in Tanzania including a terminal-storage facility in Chongoleani. French energy giant Total Energies and Chinese energy firm CNOOC International also have a stake in the $5bn (£4bn) venture. Because of the waxy nature of Lake Albert's crude oil, it will be transported through a heated pipeline - the longest in the world. But only a third of the reserves of 6.5 billion barrels, first discovered in 2006, is deemed commercially viable. Despite the projected economic benefits, the timing of the project has divided opinion in Uganda and beyond. In September, the European Union waded into the controversy surrounding the East African Crude Oil Pipeline (Eacop), and called for it to be halted, citing human rights abuses and concern for the environment and the climate. The intervention was dismissed by the Ugandan and Tanzanian governments which see the pipeline as vital to turbo-charge their economies. "They are insufferable, so shallow, so egocentric, so wrong," Uganda's President Yoweri Museveni said of the EU lawmakers. His frustration is shared by some advocates of Africa's economic development who argue that the continent has the right to use its fossil fuel riches to develop, just like rich nations have done for hundreds of years. They point out that Africa has only emitted 3% of climate-warming gases compared to 17% from EU countries. Crucially, 92% of Uganda's energy already comes from renewable sources. In Tanzania, it is about 84%. Whereas for the EU it is 22%, according to the International Renewable Energy Agency. "It's hypocrisy," Elison Karuhanga, a member of Uganda's chamber of mines and petroleum, says of the EU's comments about the pipeline. "Unlike wealthy nations which will remain wealthy even when their oil and gas revenue is removed, we cannot afford to gamble the future of Ugandan generations on hypotheticals," Mr Karuhanga says. The first oil is expected to be tapped in three years with at least 230,000 barrels pumped out every day at its peak - projected to earn Uganda between $1.5bn-$3.5bn a year, 30-75% of its annual tax revenue. Tanzania will reportedly get at least $12 a barrel, close to $1bn a year. Despite the estimated windfall, campaign group Stop Eacop says the pipeline will produce 34 million tonnes of harmful carbon emissions each year. It passes near Murchison Falls National Park, an area rich in biodiversity, as well as farmlands. TotalEnergies, which has a 62% stake in Eacop, told the BBC that the project will have "one of the company's lowest carbon dioxide emission levels". "The pipeline route was designed to minimise its impact on the landscape and biodiversity" and "will significantly improve living conditions locally," the French oil giant said. However, Ugandan climate activist Brian says Eacop would only turn Uganda into a "petrol station" for Europe and China and says the windfall from the project will only benefit the country's elite. We are not giving Brian's full name for security reasons. Despite threats of arrest and harassment faced by Eacop opponents, Brian continues to campaign for the country to switch to green energy as it committed to by signing the Paris Climate agreement in 2015 - the global plan to prevent temperatures rising beyond 1.5C compared to pre-industrial levels. "You only use the oil and gas that's already developed. The moment you start developing new ones today, and tomorrow, and a month later and years from now, you're delaying the process of transition, and that will cause a tipping-point for the climate," Brian says. Tony Tiyou, the head of the company Renewables in Africa, disagrees with green energy purists. "I may be a renewable advocate, but I'm also a practical guy," he says. "I know we're still going to need some fossil fuel because at the moment people need power in Africa and if they don't have power, it will be a little bit difficult to lift people out of poverty," Mr Tiyou says. "Solar and wind could be intermittent. You don't have solar at night, for example, and wind doesn't always blow when you need it. But people talk about an energy mix - a combination of different sources." We have asked for comment from the Tanzania and Uganda governments. But despite the urgency for energy transition as set out in the Paris agreement, global investments in fossil fuels still outpace those in renewables. "Part of the reason is the fact that you need to look at who's going to benefit from the project, because you can't really export renewable at this stage, you most of the time, use it locally. You can export oil, and guess who's going to benefit from that?" Mr Tiyou says, referring to Western countries. It's a point that Faten Agaad, senior adviser on Climate Diplomacy and Geopolitics for the African Climate Foundation, agrees with. "African countries are not receiving financing required for the green transition. That's why we see countries turning to fossil fuels as a way to generate incomes. I mean as we speak, the financing of fossil fuels is three times higher than for green energy, that's $30bn to $9bn for renewables." She also accuses the EU of hypocrisy. Although Eacop plans to construct a refinery in Uganda for domestic consumption, its crude oil will mainly be for export, especially for Europe as a result of the ripple-effects of the war in Ukraine. While Uganda hopes to benefit from its oil well into the future, this may not prove to be the case. "What we're seeing is that Europe is working towards a transition, and in fact, not just in Europe. Even in Asia. China is currently the largest in terms of solar capacity, we also see other large economies like Indonesia also transitioning. So the risk for African countries is in 20, 30, 40 years they'll find themselves with assets that are not a good return on investment," Ms Aggad says. How to balance economic development as well as fight climate change will dominate discussions at next month's Cop 27 conference in Egypt. Activists from developing countries have been putting pressure on rich nations to honour their commitment at Cop 26 last year for urgent funding for climate adaptation and mitigation projects, as well as to compensate them for the loss and damage that they have wrought on the planet while building their own economies. Back in Chongoleani, several unfinished concrete houses dot an area near where villagers who sold their land were relocated. They complain that the compensation given was not enough. Some are said to have invested their money in new businesses which have since failed. Others said they had taken up fishing after farming became untenable. Meanwhile, newcomers from other parts of the country continue to arrive in the area hoping to benefit from the project. Mr Hamisi, like many in the community, hopes that the oil pipeline project will help replace his lost farming income, and bring prosperity to the village. Additional reporting by the BBC's Aboubakar Famau in Tanzania Cameroon's President Paul Biya, 93, won his eighth successive term last year in a disputed election. The fuel cost is nearly double what the government budgeted for putting pressure on stretched finances. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. People evicted to build Nigeria's capital accuse the government of failing to fulfill its promises to them. The Uganda Law Society criticises the deportation, saying it was illegal and "dehumanising". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A network of illegal oil pipelines being unearthed in Nigeria's Niger Delta region has revealed the extent of oil theft in the country, astounding even the most cynical about Nigeria's obscure but hugely lucrative oil industry. In Delta state, thieves built their own 4km- (2.5 mile) long pipeline through the heavily guarded creeks to the Atlantic Ocean. There, barges and vessels blatantly loaded the stolen oil from a 24-foot rig visible from miles on the open waters. "It was a professional job," said the head of the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPC), Mele Kyari, wading through the swamps as he retraced the slick path during a televised visit to the scene. Crude oil is Nigeria's main export but production, and revenue, has been dwindling for years because of thieves, authorities say. Oil production fell from 2.5 million barrels per day in 2011 to just over a  million in July 2022, according to the regulator. Authorities say more than $3.3bn (£2.9bn) has been lost to crude oil theft since last year and at a time when other oil producers are having a petrodollars splurge, Nigeria can't even meet its production quota. And it is not that the country can afford to lose money to thieves, it is gripped by widespread poverty and heavily indebted. Many are saying that the recent discovery of the illegal pipelines confirms long-held suspicions of massive corruption in the sector where there is little transparency. Nigeria's oil industry has a documented history of corruption, from an unending fuel subsidy scheme where no-one actually knows how much is imported, to the shadowy allotment of oil exploration blocks. That the heist was discovered by a private security firm and not the authorities has also added to the anger. But Government Ekpemupolo, known as Tompolo, is no ordinary private security contractor. The 51-year-old chief from Gbaramatu kingdom in oil-rich Delta state was in the past involved in blowing up the very oil pipelines he is now guarding after a controversial 48bn naira ($110m; £98m) contract from the government at the end of August. He is arguably Nigeria's richest ex oil-militant, was once the country's most wanted man, and at one point even sold the country a fleet of warships. He also knows the geography of the Niger Delta, the oil wells and official pipelines, so many believe his comments about the identity of the thieves. "Many of the security people are involved because there is no way you can load a vessel without settling [bribing] the security people in that region," he told Channels TV. He also suggested that much of the oil was stolen from precisely those areas where there were army and navy checkpoints. The military has not responded to these allegations, but it is unlikely they will openly contradict a man they have gone into partnership with to crack down on oil theft. Lucky Irabor, Nigeria's defence chief, who was part of the retinue that toured the oily trail of the thieves, escorted by Tompolo's men, said it was an "eye-opener" and promised an investigation. But it is not the first time Nigeria's security agencies, especially the top brass of the army and navy, are being fingered over oil theft. In January, Nyesom Wike, the governor of neighbouring Rivers state, said a police superintendent was involved in oil theft in the Emuoha area of the state and wanted him kicked out. In 2019, Mr Wike also accused a high-ranking army commander of engaging in massive oil theft in the state, which was denied. That corruption on this scale happened directly under President Muhammadu Buhari, who also doubles as Nigeria's Petroleum Minister, has undermined his stance on fighting corruption, said Salaudeen Hashim of CLEEN Foundation, an anti-corruption NGO. Mr Buhari was elected on a promise of fighting corruption in 2015, but many question how effective his administration has been. "The extent of the ongoing oil theft might not even be fully known until this administration leaves office in May," one analyst told the BBC. Since independence in 1960, Nigeria has been ruled intermittently by military officers who seize power through coups, leaving behind a rot of corruption financed through the vast oil and gas industry in the Niger Delta. Postings to the region, to protect oil installations, are considered lucrative by both senior security figures and the rank and file, who lobby and pay bribes to get them, said Mr Hashim. "Once there, it is a race to the bottom to accumulate illegal wealth," he added. The recent burning of a vessel seized on allegations of carrying 650,000 litres of stolen crude oil in Delta state has also raised eyebrows. Many questioned why security operatives were so swift to destroy the evidence - part of Tompolo's recent success - but Nigeria's defence chief said as the seized ship was smuggling stolen oil, no investigation was needed. Tompolo's motivation for the crackdown on crude-oil theft has left many bewildered. He is getting paid for it, and has spoken glowingly of his love for Nigeria and the Niger Delta environment, but this is the same Tompolo, many say, who blew up oil pipelines in the past. As one expert pointed out, the illegal oil pipelines being unearthed by Mr Tompolo have so far been in Delta state, where he wields enormous power. It is unlikely that anyone would have peacefully operated such facilities in his territory for years without his knowledge, they said. In the past there have been deadly clashes between security forces and armed militants operating in the region but things have been relatively calm for years, and many say underneath that is an agreement by both sides not to interfere with the other's "business". The only losers, it would seem, are law-abiding Nigerians, and perhaps, the oil firms. Not that they will get much sympathy in the country. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Asia relies heavily on oil and gas from the Gulf, and shortages and higher prices are starting to bite. The cost of filling a vehicle jumped at the sharpest pace than any other month, the RAC said. The chancellor says the US president does not have a "clear plan" to exit the conflict. European stock markets opened higher after the US president said the conflict would "end very soon". Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Senator Dick Durbin tells the BBC that Saudi Arabia should face consequences after OPEC+ decided to cut oil production last week. The Democrat says he is prepared to freeze arms sales to the Gulf monarchy, which he accuses of siding with Russia. Astronauts on the Artemis II mission are on the third day of their journey around the far side of the Moon. At the annual 'Great Marshmallow Drop', more than 15,000 fluffy treats fell from a helicopter as kids raced to collect them. The crew will not land on the Moon on this current mission, though Nasa is preparing for a potential lunar landing by 2028. The crew on board the Artemis II spoke by video link, sharing messages for their families and experiences of the trip so far. The former prosecutor has a long-standing relationship with President Trump, having represented him in the criminal hush-money case. The US is aiming to be the first country to land humans on the lunar surface again by 2028 - so what's this mission for? Nasa astronauts conducted a number of different tests on board the Orion spacecraft - including practising manoeuvring the capsule. People on a commercial flight were treated to a rare view of the launch of Nasa's first crewed mission to the Moon in half a century. Science editor Rebecca Morelle watched from just three miles away as the most powerful rocket ever built blasted off from Florida. After delays and technical issues, the first crewed Moon mission in 50 years finally took off from Florida and is now in Earth's orbit. The BBC’s Ione Wells spoke with protesters and attendees outside the Supreme Court hearing on President Donald Trump’s executive order. From spacesuit fitting to final communications checks in the rocket, the crew prepared for liftoff to begin their 10-day mission. BBC’s Leyla Khodabakhshi speaks to locals and visitors in Florida ahead of the Artemis II mission blast off. The BBC’s Gary O'Donoghue spoke to one farmer in Alabama who, despite facing intense financial pressures, continues to support President Trump. The installation, titled "A throne fit for a king", was placed at the National Mall as a critique of President Trump's White House renovations. For the 10-day mission, Nasa scientists have developed a new "universal waste management system" - or space loo. Training for the Artemis II flight took place at the Johnson Space Center in Texas, and began soon after the crew was named in 2023. The Artemis II spacesuits are designed to protect the astronauts during launch and landing, as well as possible emergency scenarios. Large protests against the Trump administration took place in cities across the US, marking the third iteration of No Kings rallies. The airport is experiencing some of the longest delays in the US as TSA agents work without pay in a partial shutdown. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
Striking French oil workers have voted to continue their industrial action, which has led to shortages at fuel stations across the country. They responded angrily after the government said it would use mandatory powers to force some of them to go back to work. The strike, in its third week, has shut six of France's seven oil refineries. With long queues of cars now a regular sight at the pumps, the government wants to get the fuel flowing again. Nearly a third of French petrol stations are now reported to be running short of at least one kind of motor fuel. Unions want pay increases for their workers, which they say should take account of the huge profits being made at the moment by the oil companies. They are seeking a 10% pay rise - 7% to cover inflation and 3% for what they call "wealth-sharing". The government's latest move to head off the impact of the action is to requisition key staff at a refinery in Normandy, threatening prosecution unless they allow some lorry tankers to fill up. French Prime Minister Elisabeth Borne said that if no agreement could be reached between the oil firms and the unions, the government would act to "unblock the situation". But the hard-left unions behind the stoppages see this as a threat to their right to strike and have toughened their position, calling the government's warning "illegal" and a "choice of violence". A spokesman for the CGT union said it was waiting for the government's requisition notifications and would challenge them in court. On Friday, French President Emmanuel Macron called on unions to end the strikes, but said energy companies should listen to the workers' "legitimate salary demands". The strike action has split opinion in France, with some commuters expressing exasperation over the fuel shortages and pointing out that they need their cars for work. But at a time of growing anxiety about the cost of living and soaring profits for some energy companies, others have expressed sympathy for the strikers. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. It appears to be the first ship owned by a major European firm to go through the strait since the conflict began. Police remind heating oil customers to secure their tanks as thieves can syphon fuel in minutes. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
The deadly impact of the oil giants’ toxic air pollution on children and the planet is revealed in this BBC News Arabic investigation from the front line of climate change in Iraq. Scientific tests carried out for the BBC indicate high levels of carcinogenic chemicals in communities living on oil fields in Iraq. Iraq has the second highest level of gas flaring in the world, the poisonous practice of burning excess gas during oil production, carried out by companies contracted to run these fields, including BP. BBC News Arabic met 13-year-old leukaemia patient Fatima, who lived with her family near the gas flares. BP told the BBC they are “extremely concerned by the issues raised by the BBC” and will “immediately review those concerns and work with our partners on any necessary interventions.” They added: “Management of gas produced alongside the oil is a significant challenge, and progress has been made.“ Eni, who is a lead contractor of Zubair where Fatima lived, said it "strongly rejects any allegation that its own activities are endangering the health of the Iraqi people”. The Iraqi government and oil companies around the world have committed to end flaring by 2030. BBC reports from the funerals of three journalists killed by a targeted attack in southern Lebanon. The BBC's Hugo Bachega speaks to families in Beirut as more than a million people have been displaced in Lebanon. Violence began after a teenage settler was killed, reportedly after being hit by a vehicle driven by a Palestinian. Israeli forces have been instructed to destroy the crossings over the Litani river that were being used by Hezbollah to send reinforcements. The BBC's Sebastian Usher reports from Dimona in southern Israel, which was hit by an Iranian missile. In footage from Russian state broadcaster RT, correspondent Steve Sweeney is seen diving off screen as a missile hits. At least 10 people were killed and 27 injured, according to Lebanon's state-run National News Agency. Iranians speak about life during the war with constant threat of bombs and regime crackdowns. Ben Chu from BBC Verify has been looking at what role the Royal Navy could play in the Strait of Hormuz. Displaced Palestinians were told to secure their tents to prevent them being blown away as a storm swept through the enclave. Dan Johnson hears from Iranians at a crossing in north-west Iran about their thoughts on the war and regime. BBC Verify explains how we verified a video of a fire at an oil depot in Iran. The footage demonstrates the flow of ships passing through the Strait of Hormuz in the Gulf since the US-Israeli military offensive began against Iran on 27 February. Foreign Secretary Yvette Cooper has hit back at President Trump's criticism of the UK response to the conflict in Iran. Footage shows flames tearing through the building in the early hours of Sunday, following more attacks on the gulf state. Social media footage shows flames leaping into the air and plumes of smoke above the city's skyline. Video filmed by a witness and verified by the BBC shows a drone crashing close to the airport. Explosions rocked the capital overnight as its busiest airport was hit by airstrikes. Some residents in the Beirut suburb of Dahieh have left their homes amid ongoing air strikes by Israel. Iranians fleeing their country have told the BBC what life under bombardment has been like. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
A senior Sri Lankan official has blamed poor quality crude oil imports for the shutdown of a power plant, leading to extended blackouts. Utilities regulator chief Janaka Ratnayake said the oil burnt in the furnaces had too much sulphur in it. But the country's energy minister has disputed the allegation. Last week, Sri Lanka increased its daily power outage from 80 minutes to 140 minutes because of a drop in power generating capacity. "Sulphur content is too high in the furnace oil [fuel oil] which is not suitable for the current power plants and it's also not conforming with environmental standards," Mr Ratnayake, the head of the Public Utilities Commission, told the BBC. "If you buy good quality crude oil for refineries, then this problem will not happen." Mr Ratnayake said about 10% of the country's electricity came from diesel and fuel oil power plants. The rest of the electricity is generated from hydro, renewable and coal-powered plants. But Power and Energy Minister Kanchana Wijesekara defended the crude oil import policy. In a tweet, he said Sri Lanka's state-run fuel retailer, Ceylon Petroleum Corporation, would respond legally to Mr Ratnayake's allegation. According to Mr Wijesekara, the power cut was extended because of a breakdown at one of the hydro-power stations and insufficient funds for diesel and fuel oil. The South Asian nation has been facing its worst financial crisis since its independence from Britain in 1948. It is struggling to find enough dollars to import fuel and food. The shortages led to months of anti-government protests and long queues outside petrol stations. In July, the unrest came to a head when President Gotabaya Rajapaksa was forced to flee the country and then resign after thousands of protesters stormed his official residence. Veteran politician Ranil Wickremesinghe was subsequently elected by MPs as president. Since then, the government has introduced a ration system for fuel using a QR code that has reduced the queues outside petrol stations. Sri Lanka has reached a preliminary agreement with the International Monetary Fund for an emergency loan of $2.9bn (£2.7bn) and it expects the deal to be approved by the IMF board by the end of this year. But the conditions include Colombo reaching an agreement with its creditors on debt restructuring. Sri Lanka has about $50bn of external debt. Two bodies which represent driving instructors have sent letters to the UK government. Hundreds of petrol stations across Australia have run out of fuel as the Iran war disrupts global oil shipments and pushes up prices. Alfred Cannan says there will be no "knee-jerk" government spending after recent fuel price shocks. The owner says he has been "bombarded" by customers but wants to be fair to everyone. The petrol station in Wednesfield is set to reopen after 15 years. Copyright 2026 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
